



old fart with his memories and his Pall Malls, with his sons full grown. I think of how 
useless the Dresden -part of my memory has been, and yet how tempting Dresden has 
been to write about, and I am reminded of the famous limerick: 

There was a young man from Stamboul, 

Who soliloquized thus to his tool, 

'You took all my wealth 
And you ruined my health, 

And now you won’t pee, you old fool’ 

And I'm reminded, too, of the song that goes 

My name is Yon Yonson, 

I work in Wisconsin, 

I work in a lumbermill there. 

The people I meet when I walk down the street, 

They say, 'What's your name? 

And I say, 

‘My name is Yon Yonson, 

I work in Wisconsin... 

And so on to infinity. 

Over the years, people I've met have often asked me what I'm working on, and I've 
usually replied that the main thing was a book about Dresden. 

I said that to Harrison Starr, the movie-maker, one time, and he raised his eyebrows 
and inquired, 'Is it an anti-war book?' 

'Yes,' I said. 'I guess.' 

'You know what I say to people when I hear they're writing anti-war books?' 

'No. What do you say, Harrison Starr?' 

'I say, "Why don’t you write an anti-glacier book instead?"' 

What he meant, of course, was that there would always be wars, that they were as easy to 
stop as glaciers. I believe that too. 

And, even if wars didn’t keep coming like glaciers, there would still be plain old death. 

When I was somewhat younger, working on my famous Dresden book, I asked an old 
war buddy named Bernard V. O'Hare if I could come to see him. He was a district 
attorney in Pennsylvania. I was a writer on Cape Cod. We had been privates in the war, 
infantry scouts. We had never expected to make any money after the war, but we were 
doing quite well. 

I had the Bell Telephone Company find him for me. They are wonderful that way. I 
have this, disease late at night sometimes, involving alcohol and the telephone. I get 
drunk, and I drive my wife away with a breath like mustard gas and roses. And then, 
speaking gravely and elegantly into the telephone, I ask the telephone operators to 
connect me with this friend or that one, from whom I have not heard in years. 



I got O'Hare on the line in this way. He is short and I am tall. We were Mutt and Jeff in 
the war. We were captured together in the war. I told him who I was on the telephone. He 
had no trouble believing it. He was up. He was reading. Everybody else in his house was 
asleep. 

'Listen,' I said, 'I'm writing this book about Dresden. I’d like some help remembering 
stuff. I wonder if I could come down and see you, and we could drink and talk and 
remember.' 

He was unenthusiastic. He said he couldn’t remember much. He told me, though, to 
come ahead. 

'I think the climax of the book will be the execution of poor old Edgar Derby,’ I said. 
'The irony is so great. A whole city gets burned down, and thousands and thousands of 
people are killed. And then this one American foot soldier is arrested in the ruins for 
taking a teapot. And he’s given a regular trial, and then he's shot by a firing squad.' 

’Elm,’ said O'Hare. 

'Don't you think that's really where the climax should come?' 'I don't know anything 
about it,' he said. 'That's your trade, not mine.’ 

As a trafficker in climaxes and thrills and characterization and wonderful dialogue and 
suspense and confrontations, I had outlined the Dresden story many times. The best 
outline I ever made, or anyway the prettiest one, was on the back of a roll of wallpaper. 

I used my daughter's crayons, a different color for each main character. One end of the 
wallpaper was the beginning of the story, and the other end was the end, and then there 
was all that middle part, which was the middle. And the blue line met the red line and 
then the yellow line, and the yellow line stopped because the character represented by the 
yellow line was dead. And so on. The destruction of Dresden was represented by a 
vertical band of orange cross-hatching, and all the lines that were still alive passed 
through it, came out the other side. 

The end, where all the lines stopped, was a beeffield on the Elbe, outside of Halle. The 
rain was coming down. The war in Europe had been over for a couple of weeks. We were 
formed in ranks, with Russian soldiers guarding us-Englishmen, Americans, Dutchmen, 
Belgians, Frenchmen, Canadians, South Africans, New Zealanders, Australians, 
thousands of us about to stop being prisoners of war. 


I told him that was one of the things I learned in college after the war. 

While I was studying to be an anthropologist, I was also working as a police reporter 
for the famous Chicago City News Bureau for twenty-eight dollars a week. One time they 
switched me from the night shift to the day shift., so I worked sixteen hours straight. We 
were supported by all the newspapers in town, and the AP and the UP and all that. And 
we would cover the courts and the police stations and the Fire Department and the Coast 
Guard out on Fake Michigan and all that. We were connected to the institutions that 
supported us by means of pneumatic tubes which ran under the streets of Chicago. 

Reporters would telephone in stories to writers wearing headphones, and the writers 
would stencil the stories on mimeograph sheets. The stories were mimeographed and 
stuffed into the brass and velvet cartridges which the pneumatic tubes ate. The very 
toughest reporters and writers were women who had taken over the jobs of men who’d 
gone to war. 

And the first story I covered I had to dictate over the telephone to one of those beastly 
girls. It was about a young veteran who had taken a job running an old-fashioned elevator 



in an office building. The elevator door on the first floor was ornamental iron lace. Iron 
ivy snaked in and out of the holes. There was an iron twig with two iron lovebirds 
perched upon it. 

This veteran decided to take his car into the basement, and he closed the door and 
started down, but his wedding ring Was caught in all the ornaments. So he was hoisted 
into the air and the floor of the car went down, dropped out from under him, and the top 
of the car squashed him. So it goes. 

So I phoned this in, and the woman who was going to cut the stencil asked me. ’What 
did his wife say?' 

'She doesn't know yet,' I said. 'It just happened.' 

'Call her up and get a statement.' 

'What?' 

'Tell her you're Captain Finn of the Police Department. Say you have some sad news. 
Give her the news, and see what she says.' 

So I did. She said about what you would expect her to say. There was a baby. And so 
on. 

When I got back to the office, the woman writer asked me, just for her own 
information, what the squashed guy had looked Eke when he was squashed. 

I told her. 

'Did it bother you?' she said. She was eating a Three Musketeers Candy Bar. 

'Heck no, Nancy,' I said. 'I've seen lots worse than that in the war.’ 

Even then I was supposedly writing a book about Dresden. It wasn't a famous air raid 
back then in America. Not many Americans knew how much worse it had been than 
Hiroshima, for instance. I didn’t know that, either. There hadn't been much publicity. 

I happened to tell a University of Chicago professor at a cocktail party about the raid as 
I had seen it, about the book I would write. He was a member of a thing called The 
Committee on Social Thought. And he told me about the concentration camps, and about 
how the Germans had made soap and candles out of the fat of dead Jews and so on. 

All could say was, 'I know, I know. I know.’ 

The Second World War had certainly made everybody very tough. And I became a 
public relations man for General Electric in Schenectady, New York, and a volunteer 
fireman in the Village of Alplaus, where I bought my first home. My boss there was one 
of the toughest guys I ever hope to meet. He had been a lieutenant colonel in public 
relations in Baltimore. While I was in Schenectady he joined the Dutch Refonned 
Church, which is a very tough church, indeed. 

He used to ask me sneeringly sometimes why I hadn’t been an officer,, as though I’d 
done something wrong. 

My wife and I had lost our baby fat. Those were our scrawny years. We had a lot of 
scrawny veterans and their scrawny wives for friends. The nicest veterans in 
Schenectady,, I thought,, the kindest and funniest ones, the ones who hated war the most, 
were the ones who’d really fought. 

I wrote the Air Force back then, asking for details about the raid on Dresden, who 
ordered it, how many planes did it, why they did it, what desirable results there had been 



and so on. I was answered by a man who, like myself, was in public relations. He said 
that he was sorry, but that the information was top secret still. 

I read the letter out loud to my wife, and I said, 'Secret? My God-from whom?' 

We were United World Federalists back then. I don't kn ow what we are now. 
Telephoners, I guess. We telephone a lot-or I do, anyway, late at night. 

A couple of weeks after I telephoned my old war buddy, Bernard V. O'Hare, I really 
did go to see him. That must have been in 1964 or so-whatever the last year was for the 
New York World's Fair. Eheu, fugaces labuntur anni. My name is Yon Yonson. There 
was a young man from Stamboul. 

I took two little girls with me, my daughter, Nanny, and her best friend, Allison 
Mitchell. They had never been off Cape Cod before. When we saw a river, we had to stop 
so they could stand by it and think about it for a while. They had never seen water in that 
long and narrow, unsalted form before. The river was the Hudson. There were carp in 
there and we saw them. They were as big as atomic submarines. 

We saw waterfalls, too, streams jumping off cliffs into the valley of the Delaware. 
There were lots of things to stop and see-and then it was time to go, always time to go. 
The little girls were wearing white party dresses and black party shoes, so strangers 
would know at once how nice they were. 'Time to go, girls,’ I’d say. And we would go. 

And the sun went down, and we had supper in an Italian place, and then I knocked on 
the front door of the beautiful stone house of Bernard V. O'Hare. I was carrying a bottle 
of Irish whiskey like a dinner bell. 

I met his nice wife, Mary, to whom I dedicate this book. I dedicate it to Gerhard 
Muller, the Dresden taxi driver, too. Mary O'Hare is a trained nurse, which is a lovely 
thing for a woman to be. 

Mary admired the two little girls I’d brought, mixed them in with her own children, 
sent them all upstairs to play games and watch television. It was only after the children 
were gone that I sensed that Mary didn’t like me or didn’t like something about the night. 
She was polite but chilly. 

'It's a nice cozy house you have here,’ I said, and it really was. 

'I've fixed up a place where you can talk and not be bothered,' she said. 

'Good,' I said, and I imagined two leather chairs near a fire in a paneled room, where 
two old soldiers could drink and talk. But she took us into the kitchen. She had put two 
straight-backed chairs at a kitchen table with a white porcelain top. That table top was 
screaming with reflected light from a two-hundred-watt bulb overhead. Mary had 
prepared an operating room. She put only one glass on it, which was for me. She 
explained that O'Hare couldn’t drink the hard stuff since the war. 

So we sat down. O'Hare was embarrassed, but he wouldn't tell me what was wrong. I 
couldn’t imagine what it was about me that could bum up Mary so. I was a family man. 
I’d been married only once. I wasn't a drunk. I hadn’t done her husband any dirt in the 
war. 

She fixed herself a Coca-Cola, made a lot of noise banging the ice-cube tray in the 
stainless steel sink. Then she went into another part of the house. But she wouldn’t sit 
still. She was moving all over the house, opening and shutting doors, even moving 
furniture around to work off anger. 



I asked O’Hare what I’d said or done to make her act that way. 

’It's all right,' he said. "Don't worry about it. It doesn't have anything to do with you.’ 
That was kind of him. He was lying. It had everything to do with me. 

So we tried to ignore Mary and remember the war. I took a couple of belts of the 
booze I'd brought. We would chuckle or grin sometimes, as though war stories were 
coming back, but neither one of us could remember anything good. O'Hare remembered 
one guy who got into a lot of wine in Dresden, before it was bombed, and we had to take 
him home in a wheelbarrow. 

It wasn’t much to write a book about. I remembered two Russian soldiers who had 
looted a clock factory. They had a horse-drawn wagon full of clocks. They were happy 
and drunk. They were smoking huge cigarettes they had rolled in newspaper. 

That was about it for memories, and Mary was still making noise. She finally came 
out in the kitchen again for another Coke. She took another tray of ice cubes from the 
refrigerator, banged it in the sink, even though there was already plenty of ice out. 

Then she turned to me, let me see how angry she was, and that the anger was for me. 
She had been talking to herself, so what she said was a fragment of a much larger 
conversation. "You were just babies then!' she said. 

’What?" I said. 

'You were just babies in the war-like the ones upstairs! ’ 

I nodded that this was true. We had been foolish virgins in the war, right at the end of 
childhood. 

'But you're not going to write it that way, are you.' This wasn't a question. It was an 
accusation. 

'I-I don’t know,’ I said. 

'Well, I know,' she said. 'You'll pretend you were men instead of babies, and you'll be 
played in the movies by Frank Sinatra and John Wayne or some of those other 
glamorous, war-loving, dirty old men. And war will look just wonderful, so we'll have a 
lot more of them. And they'll be fought by babies like the babies upstairs.' 

So then I understood. It was war that made her so angry. She didn't want her babies or 
anybody else's babies killed in wars. And she thought wars were partly encouraged by 
books and movies. 

So I held up my right hand and I made her a promise 'Mary,' I said, 'I don’t think this 
book is ever going to be finished. I must have written five thousand pages by now, and 
thrown them all away. If I ever do finish it, though, I give you my word of honor: there 
won’t be a part for Frank Sinatra or John Wayne. 

'I tell you what,' I said, 'I'll call it The Children's Crusade.' 

She was my friend after that. 

O'Hare and I gave up on remembering, went into the living room, talked about other 
things. We became curious about the real Children's Crusade, so O'Hare looked it up in a 
book he had, Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds, by Charles 
Mackay, LL.D. It was first published in London in 1841. 

Mackay had a low opinion of all Crusades. The Children's Crusade struck him as only 
slightly more sordid than the ten Crusades for grown-ups. O'Hare read this handsome 
passage out loud: 



History in her solemn page informs us that the Crusaders were but ignorant and savage 
men, that their motives were those of bigotry unmitigated, and that their pathway was one 
of blood and rears. Romance, on the other hand, dilates upon their piety and heroism, 
and portrays, in her most glowing and impassioned hues, their virtue and magnanimity, 
the imperishable honor they acquired for themselves, and the great services they rendered 
to Christianity. 

And then O'Hare read this: Now what was the grand result of all these struggles? 
Europe expended millions of her treasures, and the blood of two million of her people; 
and a handful of quarrelsome knights retained possession of Palestine for about one 
hundred years! 

Mackay told us that the Children's Crusade started in 1213, when two monks got the 
idea of raising armies of children in Germany and France, and selling them in North 
Africa as slaves. Thirty thousand children volunteered, thinking they were going to 
Palestine. They were no doubt idle and deserted children who generally swarm in great 
cities, nurtured on vice and daring, said Mackay, and ready for anything. 

Pope Innocent the Third thought they were going to Palestine, too, and he was thrilled. 
'These children are awake while we are asleep!’ he said. 

Most of the children were shipped out of Marseilles, and about half of them drowned 
in shipwrecks. The other half got to North Africa where they were sold. 

Through a misunderstanding, some children reported for duty at Genoa, where no slave 
ships were waiting. They were fed and sheltered and questioned kindly by good people 
there-then given a little money and a lot of advice and sent back home. 

'Hooray for the good people of Genoa,' said Mary O'Hare. 

I slept that night in one of the children’s bedrooms. O'Hare had put a book for me on 
the bedside table. It was Dresden, History, Stage and Gallery, by Mary Ended. It was 
published in 1908, and its introduction began 

It is hoped that this little book will make itself useful. It attempts to give to an 
English-reading public a bird's-eye view of how Dresden came to look as it does, 
architecturally; of how it expanded musically, through the genius of a few men, to its 
present bloom; and it calls attention to certain permanent landmarks in art that make its 
Gallery the resort of those seeking lasting impressions. 

I read some history further on 

Now, in 1760, Dresden underwent siege by the Prussians. On the fifteenth of July 
began the cannonade. The Picture-Gallery took fire. Many of the paintings had been 
transported to -the Konigstein, but some were seriously injured by splinters of 
bombshells-notably Francia's 'Baptism of Christ.' Furthermore, the stately Kreuzkirche 
tower, from which the enemy's movements had been watched day and night, stood in 
flames. It later succumbed. In sturdy contrast with the pitiful fate of the Kreuzkirche, 
stood the Frauenkirche, from the curves of whose stone dome the Prussian bombs - 
rebounded like rain. Friederich was obliged finally to give up the siege, because he 
learned of the fall of Glatz, the critical point of his new conquests. 'We must be off to 
Silesia, so that we do not lose everything.’ 

The devastation of Dresden was boundless. When Goethe as a young student visited 
the city, he still found sad ruins 'Von der Kuppel der Frauenkirche sah ich these leidigen 
Trammer zwischen die schone stddtische Ordnung hineingesat; da ruhmte mir der Kiister 



die Kunst des Baumeisters, welcher Kirche und Kuppel auf einen so uneriiinschten Fall 
schon eingeyichtet und bombenfest erbaut hatte. Der gute Sakristan deutete mir alsdann 
auf Ruinen nach alien Seiten und sagte bedenklich lakonisch: Das hat her Feind Gethan!' 

The two little girls and I crossed the Delaware River where George Washington had 
crossed it, the next morning. We went to the New York World's Fair, saw what the past 
had been like, according to the Ford Motor Car Company and Walt Disney, saw what the 
future would be like, according to General Motors. 

And I asked myself about the present: how wide it was, how deep it was, how much 
was mine to keep. 

I taught creative writing in the famous Writers Workshop at the University of Iowa for 
a couple of years after that. I got into some perfectly beautiful trouble, got out of it again. 
I taught in the afternoons. In the mornings I wrote. I was not be disturbed. I was working 
on my famous book about Dresden. 

And somewhere in there a nice man named Seymour Lawrence gave me a three-book 
contract, and I said, 'O.K., the first of the three will be my famous book about Dresden.' 

The friends of Seymour Lawrence call him 'Sam.' And I say to Sam now: 'Sam-here's 
the book.’ 

It is so short and jumbled and jangled, Sam, because there is nothing intelligent to say 
about a massacre. Everybody is supposed to be dead, to never say anything or want 
anything ever again. Everything is supposed to be very quiet after a massacre, and it 
always is, except for the birds. 

And what do the birds say? All there is to say about a massacre, things like 'Poo-tee- 
weet?' 

I have told my sons that they are not under any circumstances to take part in 
massacres, and that the news of massacres of enemies is not to fill them with satisfaction 
or glee. 

I have also told them not to work for companies which make massacre machinery, and 
to express contempt for people who think we need machinery like that. 

As I've said I recently went back to Dresden with my friend O'Hare. We had a million 
laughs in Hamburg and West Berlin and East Berlin and Vienna and Salzburg and 
Helsinki, and in Leningrad, too. It was very good for me, because I saw a lot of authentic 
backgrounds for made-up stories which I will write later on. One of them will be Russian 
Baroque and another will be No Kissing and another will be Dollar Bar and another will 
be If the Accident Will, and so on. 

And so on. 

There was a Lufthansa plane that was supposed to fly from Philadelphia to Boston to 
Frankfurt. O'Hare was supposed to get on in Philadelphia and I was supposed to get on in 
Boston, and off we’d go. But Boston was socked in, so the plane flew straight to 
Fra nk furt from Philadelphia. And I became a non-person in the Boston Fog, and 



Lufthansa put me in a limousine with some other non-persons and sent us to a motel for a 
non-night. 

The time would not pass. Somebody was playing with the clocks, and not only with the 
electric clocks, but the wind-up kind, too. The second hand on my watch would twitch 
once, and a year would pass, and then it would twitch again. 

There was nothing I could do about it. As an Earthling., I had to believe whatever 
clocks said-and calendars. 

I had two books with me, which I’d meant to read on the plane. One was Words for the 
Wind, by Theodore Roethke, and this is what I found in there: 

I wake to steep, and take my waking slow. 

I feet my late in what I cannot fear. 

I learn by going where I have to go. 

My other book was Erika Ostrovsky's Celine and His Vision. Celine was a brave 
French soldier in the First World War-until his skull was cracked. After that he couldn’t 
sleep, and there were noises in his head. He became a doctor, and he treated poor people 
in the daytime, and he wrote grotesque novels all night. No art is possible without a dance 
with death, he wrote. 

The truth is death, he wrote. I’ve fought nicely against it as long as I could ... danced 
with it, festooned it, waltzed it around ... decorated it with streamers, titillated it... 

Time obsessed him. Miss Ostrovsky reminded me of the amazing scene in Death on the 
Installment Plan where Celine wants to stop the bustling of a street crowd. He screams on 
paper, Make them stop ... don’t let them move anymore at all ... There, make them freeze 
... once and for all! ... So that they won’t disappear anymore! 

I looked through the Gideon Bible in my motel room for tales of great destruction. The 
sun was risen upon the Earth when Lot entered into Zo-ar, I read. Then the Lord rained 
upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and fire from the Lord out of Heaven; and 
He overthrew those cities, and all the plain, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and that 
which grew upon the ground. 

So it goes. 

Those were vile people in both those cities, as is well known. The world was better off 
without them. 

And Lot's wife, of course, was told not to look back where all those people and their 
homes had been. But she did look back, and I love her for that, because it was so human. 

She was turned to a pillar of salt. So it goes. 

People aren’t supposed to look back. I'm certainly not going to do it anymore. 

I've finished my war book now. The next one I write is going to be fun. 

This one is a failure, and had to be, since it was written by a pillar of salt. It begins 
like this: 

Listen: 

Billy Pilgrim has come unstuck in time. 

It ends like this: 

Poo-tee-weet? 


Two 



Listen: 

Billy Pilgrim has come unstuck in time. 

Billy has gone to sleep a senile widower and awakened on his wedding day. He has 
walked through a door in 1955 and come out another one in 1941. He has gone back 
through that door to find himself in 1963. He has seen his birth and death many times, he 
says, and pays random visits to all the events in between. 

He says. 

Billy is spastic in time, has no control over where he is going next, and the trips aren’t 
necessarily fun. He is'm a constant state of stage fright, he says, because he never knows 
what part of his life he is going to have to act in next. 

Billy was bon in 1922 in Ilium, New York, the only child of a barber there. He was a 
funny-looking child who became a funny-looking youth-tall and weak, and shaped like a 
bottle of Coca-Cola. He graduated from Ilium High School in the upper third of his class, 
and attended night sessions at the Ilium School of Optometry for one semester before 
being drafted for military service in the Second World War. His father died in a hunting 
accident during the war. So it goes. 

Billy saw service with the infantry in Europe, and was taken prisoner by the Gennans. 
After his honorable discharge from the Army in 1945, Billy again enrolled in the Ilium 
School of Optometry. During his senior year there, he became engaged to the daughter 
of the founder and owner of the school, and then suffered a mild nervous collapse. 

He was treated in a veterans’ hospital near Lake Placid, and was given shock 
treatments and released. He married his fiancee, finished his education, and was set up in 
business in Ilium by his father-in-law. Ilium is a particularly good city for optometrists 
because the General Forge and Foundry Company is there. Every employee is required 
to own a pair of safety glasses, and to wear them in areas where manufacturing is going 
on. GF&F has sixty-eight thousand employees in Ilium. That calls for a lot of lenses and 
a lot of frames. 

Frames are where the money is. 

Bill became rich. He had two children, Barbara and Robert. In time, his daughter 
Barbara married another optometrist., and Billy set him up in business. Billy's son Robert 
had a lot of trouble in high school, but then he joined the famous Green Berets. He 
straightened out, became a fine Young man, and he fought in Vietnam. 

Early in 1968, a group of optometrists, with Billy among them, chartered an airplane to 
fly them from Ilium to an international convention of optometrists in Montreal. The plane 
crashed on top of Sugarbush Mountain, in Vennont. Everybody was killed but Billy. So 
it goes. 

While Billy was recuperating in a hospital in Vermont, his wife died accidentally of 
carbon-monoxide poisoning. So it goes. 

When Billy finally got home to Ilium after the airplane crash, he was quiet for a while. 
He had a terrible scar across the top Of his skull. He didn’t resume practice. He had a 
housekeeper. His daughter came over almost every day. 

And then, without any warning, Billy went to New York City, and got on an all-night 
radio program devoted to talk. He told about having come unstuck in time. He said, too, 
that he had been kidnapped by a flying saucer in 1967. The saucer was from the planet 
Tralfamadore, he said. He was taken to Tralfamadore, where he was displayed naked in a 



zoo, he said. He was mated there with a former Earthling movie star named Montana 
Wildhack. 

Some night owls in Ilium heard Billy on the radio, and one of them called Billy's 
daughter Barbara. Barbara was upset. She and her husband went down to New York and 
brought Billy home. Billy insisted mildly that everything he had said on the radio was 
true. He said he had been kidnapped by the Tralfamadorians on the night of his daughter's 
wedding. He hadn’t been missed, he said, because the Tralfamadorians had taken him 
through a time warp, so that he could be on Tralfamadore for years, and still be away 
from Earth for only a microsecond. 

Another month went by without incident, and then Billy wrote a letter to the Ilium 
News Leader, which the paper published. It described the creatures from Tralfamadore. 

The letter said that they were two feet high, and green., and shaped like plumber's 
friends. Their suction cups were on the ground, and their shafts, which were extremely 
flexible, usually pointed to the sky. At the top of each shaft was a little hand with a green 
eye in its palm. The creatures were friendly, and they could see in four dimensions. They 
pitied Earthlings for being able to see only three. They had many wonderful things to 
teach Earthlings, especially about time. Billy promised to tell what some of those 
wonderful things were in his next letter. 

Billy was working on his second letter when the first letter was published. The second 
letter started out like this: 

'The most important thing I learned on Tralfamadore was that when a person dies he 
only appears to die. He is still very much alive in the past, so it is very silly for people to 
cry at his funeral. All moments, past, present and future, always have existed, always will 
exist. The Tralfamadorians can look at all the different moments just that way we can 
look at a stretch of the Rocky Mountains, for instance. They can see how permanent all 
the moments are, and they can look at any moment that interests them. It is just an 
illusion we have here on Earth that one moment follows another one, like beads on a 
string, and that once a moment is gone it is gone forever. 

'When a Tralfamadorian sees a corpse, all he thinks is that the dead person is in a bad 
condition in that particular moment, but that the same person is just fine in plenty of other 
moments. Now, when I myself hear that somebody is dead, I simply shrug and say what 
the Tralfamadorians say about dead people, which is "so it goes."’ 

And so on. 

Billy was working on this letter in the basement rumpus room of his empty house. It 
was his housekeeper's day off. There was an old typewriter in the rumpus room. It was a 
beast. It weighed as much as a storage battery. Billy couldn’t carry it very far very easily, 
which was why he was writing in the rumpus room instead of somewhere else. 

The oil burner had quit. A mouse had eaten through the insulation of a wire leading to 
the thermostat. The temperature in the house was down to fifty degrees, but Billy hadn’t 
noticed. He wasn't warmly dressed, either. He was barefoot, and still in his pajamas and a 
bathrobe, though it was late afternoon. His bare feet were blue and ivory. 

The cockles of Billy's heart, at any rate, were glowing coals. What made them so hot was 
Billy's belief that he was going to comfort so many people with the truth about time. His 



door chimes upstairs had been ringing and ringing. It was his daughter Barbara up there 
wanting in. Now she let herself in with a key, crossed the floor over his head calling, 
'Father? Daddy, where are you?’ And so on. 

Billy didn’t answer her, so she was nearly hysterical, expecting to find his corpse. And 
then she looked into the very last place there was to look-which was the rumpus room. 

'Why didn’t you answer me when I called?’ Barbara wanted to know, standing there in 
the door of the rumpus room. She had the afternoon paper with her, the one in which 
Billy described his friends from Tralfamadore. 

'I didn’t hear you,' said Billy. 

The orchestration of the moment was this: Barbara was only twenty-one years old, but 
she thought her father was senile, even though he was only forty-six-senile because of 
damage to his brain in the airplane crash. She also thought that she was head of the 
family, since she had had to manage her mother's funeral, since she had to get a 
housekeeper for Billy, and all that. Also, Barbara and her husband were having to look 
after Billy's business interests, which were considerable, since Billy didn’t seem to give a 
damn for business any more. All this responsibility at such an early age made her a bitchy 
flibbertigibbet. And Billy, meanwhile, was trying to hang onto his dignity, to persuade 
Barbara and everybody else that he was far from senile, that, on the contrary, he was 
devoting himself to a calling much higher than mere business. 

He was doing nothing less now, he thought, then prescribing corrective lenses for 
Earthling souls. So many of those souls were lost and wretched, Billy believed, because 
they could not see as well as Ws little green friends on Tralfamadore. 

'Don’t he to me, Father,' said Barbara. ’I know perfectly well you heard me when I 
called.’ This was a fairly pretty girl, except that she had legs like an Edwardian grand 
piano. Now she raised hell with him about the letter in the paper. She said he was making 
a laughing stock of himself and everybody associated with him. 

'Father, Father, Father,' said Barbara, 'what are we going to do with you? Are you 
going to force us to put you where your mother is?’ Billy's mother was still alive. She was 
in bed in an old people's home called Pine Knoll on the edge of Ilium. 

'What is it about my letter that makes you so mad?' Billy wanted to know. 

'It's all just crazy. None of it's true! ’ 

'It's all true. ’ Bill's anger was not going to rise with hers. He never got mad at 
anything. He was wonderful that way. 

'There is no such planet as Tralfamadore.' 

'It can't be detected from Earth, if that's what you mean,' said Billy. 'Earth can't be 
detected from Tralfamadore, as far as that goes. They're both very small. They're very far 
apart.' 

'Where did you get a crazy name like "Tralfamadore?"’ 

'That's what the creatures who live there call it. 

'Oh God,’ said Barbara, and she turned her back on him. She celebrated frustration by 
clapping her hands. 'May I ask you a simple question?’ 

'Of course.’ 

'Why is it you never mentioned any of this before the airplane crash?’ 

'I didn’t think the time was ripe.' 



And so on. Billy says that he first came unstuck in time in 1944, long before his trip to 
Tralfamadore. The Tralfamadorians didn’t have anything to do with his coming unstuck 
They were simply able to give him insights into what was really going on. 

Billy first came unstuck while the Second World War was in progress. Billy was a 
chaplain's assistant in the war. A chaplain's assistant is customarily a figure of fun in the 
American Army. Billy was no exception. He was powerless to harm the enemy or to help 
his friends. In fact, he had no friends. He was a valet to a preacher, expected no 
promotions or medals, bore no anns, and had a meek faith in a loving Jesus which most 
soldiers found putrid. 

While on maneuvers in South Carolina, Billy played hymns he knew from childhood, 
played them on a little black organ which was waterproof. It had thirty-nine keys and two 
stops- vox humana and vox celeste. Billy also had charge of a portable altar, an olive- 
drab attache case with telescoping legs. It was lined with crimson plush, and nestled in 
that passionate plush were an anodized aluminum cross and a Bible. 

The altar and the organ were made by a vacuum-cleaner company in Camden, New 
Jersey-and said so. 

One time on maneuvers Billy was playing 'A Mighty Fortress Is Our God,' with music 
by Johann Sebastian Bach and words by Martin Luther. It was Sunday morning. Billy and 
his chaplain had gathered a congregatation of about fifty soldiers on a Carolina hillside. 
An umpire appeared. There were umpires everywhere, men who said who was winning 
or losing the theoretical battle, who was alive and who was dead. 

The umpire had comical news. The congregation had been theoretically spotted from 
the air by a theoretical enemy. They Were all theoretically dead now. The theoretical 
corpses laughed and ate a hearty noontime meal. 

Remembering this incident years later, Billy was struck by what a Tralfamadorian 
adventure with death that had been, to be dead and to eat at the same time. 

Toward the end of maneuvers., Billy was given an emergency furlough home because 
his father, a barber in Ilium, New York, was shot dead by a friend while they were out 
hunting deer. So it goes. 

When Billy got back from his furlough., there were orders for him to go overseas. He 
was needed in the headquarters company of an infantry regiment fighting in 
Luxembourg. The regimental chaplain's assistant had been killed in action. So it goes. 

When Billy joined the regiment, it was in the process of being destroyed by the 
Germans in the famous Battle of the Bulge. Billy never even got to meet the chaplain he 
was supposed to assist, was never even issued a steel helmet and combat boots. This was 
in December of 1944, during the last mighty German attack of the war. 

Billy survived, but he was a dazed wanderer far behind the new German lines. Three 
other wanderers, not quite so dazed, allowed Billy to tag along. Two of them were scouts, 
and one was an antitank gunner. They were without food or maps. Avoiding Germans 
they were delivering themselves into rural silences ever more profound. They ate snow. 



They went Indian file. First came the scouts, clever, graceful quiet. They had rifles. 
Next came the antitank gunner, clumsy and dense, warning Germans away with a Colt 
.45 automatic in one hand and a trench knife in the other. 

Last came Billy Pilgrim, empty-handed, bleakly ready for death. Billy was 
Preposterous-six feet and three inches tall, with a chest and shoulders like a box of 
kitchen matches. He had no helmet, no overcoat, no weapon and no boots. On his feet 
were cheap, low-cut civilian shoes which he had bought for his father’s funeral. Billy had 
lost a heel, which made him bob up-and-down, up-and-down. The involuntary dancing up 
and down, up and down, made his hip joints sore. 

Billy was wearing a thin field jacket, a shirt and trousers of scratchy wool, and long 
underwear that was soaked with sweat. He was the only one of the four who had a beard. 
It was a random, bristly beard, and some of the bristles were white, even though Billy 
was only twenty-one years old. He was also going bald. Wind and cold and violent 
exercise had turned his face crimson. 

He didn’t look like a soldier at all. He looked like a filthy flamingo. 

And on the third day of wandering, somebody shot at the four from far away-shot four 
times as they crossed a narrow brick road. One shot was for the scouts. The next one was 
for the antitank gunner, whose name was Roland Weary. 

The third bullet was for the filthy flamingo, who stopped dead center in the road when 
the lethal bee buzzed past his ear. Billy stood there politely, giving the marksman another 
chance. It was his addled understanding of the rules of warfare that the marksman should 
be given a second chance. The next shot missed Billy's kneecaps by inches, going end- 
on-end, from the sound of it. 

Roland Weary and the scouts were safe in a ditch, and Weary growled at Billy, ’Get 
out of the road, you dumb motherfucker.’ The last word was still a novelty in the speech 
of white people in 1944. It was fresh and astonishing to Billy, who had never fucked 
anybody-and it did its job. It woke him up and got him off the road. 

’Saved your life again, you dumb bastard,’ Weary said to Billy in the ditch. He had 
been saving Billy's fife for days, cursing him, kicking him, slapping him, making him 
move. It was absolutely necessary that cruelty be used, because Billy wouldn’t do 
anything to save himself. Billy wanted to quit. He was cold, hungry, embarrassed, 
incompetent. He could scarcely distinguish between sleep and wakefulness now, on the 
third day, found no important differences either, between walking and standing still. 

He wished everybody would leave him alone. 'You guys go on without me,’ he said 
again and again. 

Weary was as new to war as Billy. He was a replacement, too. As a part of a gun crew, 
he had helped to fire one shot in anger-from a 57-millimeter antitank gun. The gun made 
a ripping sound like the opening of a zipper on the fly of God Almighty. The gun lapped 
up snow and vegetation with a blowtorch feet long. The flame left a black arrow on the 
ground, showing the Germans exactly where the gun was hidden. The shot was a miss. 

What had been missed was a Tiger tank. It swiveled its 88-millimeter snout around 
sniffingly, saw the arrow on the ground. It fired. It killed everybody on the gun crew but 
Weary. So it goes. 



Roland Weary was only eighteen, was at the end of an unhappy childhood spent 
mostly in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He had been unpopular in Pittsburgh. He had been 
unpopular because he was stupid and fat and mean, and smelled like bacon no matter how 
much he washed. He was always being ditched in Pittsburgh by people who did not want 
him with them. 

It made Weary sick to be ditched. When Weary was ditched, le would find somebody 
who was even more unpopular than himself, and he would horse around with that person 
for a while, pretending to be friendly. And then he would find some pretext for beating 
the shit out of him. 

It was a pattern. It was a crazy, sexy, murderous relationship Weary entered into with 
people he eventually beat up. He told hem about his father's collection of guns and 
swords and torture instruments and leg irons and so on. Weary's father, who was a 
plumber, actually did collect such things, and his collection was insured for four thousand 
dollars. He wasn’t alone. He belonged to a big club composed of people who collected 
things like that. 

Weary's father once gave Weary's mother a Spanish thumbscrew in - working 
condition-for a kitchen paperweight. Another time he gave her a table lamp whose base 
was a model one foot high of the famous 'Iron Maiden of Nuremburg.’ The real Iron 
Maiden was a medieval torture instrument, a sort of boiler which was shaped like a 
woman on the outside-and lined with spikes. The front of the woman was composed of 
two hinged doors. The idea was to put a criminal inside and then close the doors slowly. 
There were two special spikes where his eyes would be. There was a drain in the bottom 
to let out all the blood. 

So it goes. 

Weary had told Billy Pilgrim about the Iron Maiden, about the drain in the bottom-and 
what that was for. He had talked to Billy about dum-dums. He told him about his father's 
Derringer pistol, which could be carried in a vest pocket, which was yet capable of 
making a hole in a man 'which a bull bat could fly through without touching either wing.' 

Weary scornfully bet Billy one time that he didn’t even know what a blood gutter was. 
Billy guessed that it was the drain in the bottom of the Iron Maiden, but that was wrong. 

A blood gutter, Billy learned, was the shallow groove in the side of the blade of a sword 
or bayonet. 

Weary told Billy about neat tortures he’d read about or seen in the movies or heard on 
the radio-about other neat tortures he himself had invented. One of the inventions was 
sticking a dentist's drill into a guy's ear. He asked Billy what he thought the worst form of 
execution was. Billy had no opinion. The correct answer turned out to be this: 'You stake 
a guy out on an anthill in the desert-see? He's face upward, and you put honey all over his 
balls and pecker, and you cut off his eyelids so he has to stare at the sun till he dies.’ So it 
goes. 

Now, lying in the ditch with Billy and the scouts after having been shot at, Weary 
made Billy take a very close look at his trench knife. It wasn’t government issue. It was a 
present from his father. It had a ten-inch blade that was triangular 'in 'cross section. Its 
grip consisted of brass knuckles, was a chain of rings through which Weary slipped his 
stubby fingers. The rings weren’t simple. They bristled with spikes. 



Weary laid the spikes along Billy's cheek, roweled the cheek with savagely 
affectionate restraint. 'How'd you-like to be hit with this-hm? Hmmmmmmmmm?' he 
wanted to know. 

'I wouldn’t,’ said Billy. 

’Know why the blade's triangular?’ 

’No.’ 

'Makes a wound that won’t close up.' 

’Oh.’ 

'Makes a three-sided hole in a guy. You stick an ordinary knife in a guy-makes a slit. 
Right? A slit closes right up. Right? 

'Right.' 

'Shit. What do you know? What the hell they teach you in college?' 

'I wasn’t there very long.' said Billy, which was true. He had had only six months of 
college and the college hadn't been a regular college, either. It had been the night school 
of the Ilium School of Optometry. 

"Joe College,' said Weary scathingly. 

Billy shrugged. 

'There's more to life than what you read in books.' said Weary. 'You'll find that out.' 

Billy made no reply to this, either, there in the ditch, since he didn’t want the 
conversation to go on any longer than necessary. He was dimly tempted to say, though, 
that he knew a thing or two about gore. Billy, after all, had contemplated torture and 
hideous wounds at the beginning and the end of nearly every day of his childhood. Billy 
had an extremely gruesome crucifix hanging on the wall of his little bedroom in Ilium. A 
military surgeon would have admired the clinical fidelity of the artist's rendition of all 
Christ's wounds-the spear wound, the thorn wounds, the holes that were made by the iron 
spikes. Billy's Christ died horribly. He was pitiful. 

So it goes. 

Billy wasn’t a Catholic, even though he grew up with a ghastly crucifix on the wall. 

His father had no religion. His mother was a substitute organist for several churches 
around town. She took Billy with her whenever she played, taught him to play a little, 
too. She said she was going to join a church as soon as she decided which one was right. 

She never did decide. She did develop a terrific hankering for a crucifix, though. And 
she bought one from a Sante Fe gift shop during a trip the little family made out West 
during the Great Depression. Like so many Americans, she was trying to construct a life 
that made sense from things she found in gift shops. 

And the crucifix went up on the wall of Billy Pilgrim. 

The two scouts, loving the walnut stocks of their rifles in the ditch, whispered that it 
was time to move out again. Ten minutes had gone by without anybody's coming to see if 
they were hit or not, to finish them off. Whoever had shot was evidently far away and all 
alone. 

And the four crawled out of the ditch without drawing any more fire. They crawled 
into a forest like the big, unlucky mammals they were. Then they stood up and began to 
walk quickly. The forest was dark and cold. The pines were planted in ranks and files. 
There was no undergrowth. Four inches of unmarked snow blanketed the ground. The 



Americans had no choice but to leave trails in the show as unambiguous as diagrams in a 
book on ballroom dancing-step, slide, rest-step, slide,-rest. 


'Close it up and keep it closed!' Roland Weary warned Billy Pilgrim as they moved out. 
Weary looked like Tweedledum or Tweedledee, all bundled up for battle. He was short 
and thick. 

He had every piece of equipment he had ever been issued, every present he’d received 
from home: helmet, helmet liner, wool cap, scarf, gloves, cotton undershirt, woolen 
undershirt, wool shirt, sweater, blouse, jacket, overcoat, cotton underpants, woolen 
underpants, woolen trousers, cotton socks, woolen socks, combat boots, gas mask, 
canteen, mess kit, first-aid kit, trench knife, blanket, shelter-half, raincoat, bulletproof 
Bible, a pamphlet entitled 'Know Your Enemy,' another pamphlet entitled 'Why We 
Fight’ and another pamphlet of Gennan phrases rendered in English phonetics,, which 
would enable Weary to ask Germans questions such as 'Where is your headquarters?’ and 
'How many howitzers have you?' Or to tell them, 'Surrender. Your situation is hopeless,’ 
and so on. 

Weary had a block of balsa wood which was supposed to be a foxhole pillow. He had a 
prophylactic kit containing two tough condoms 'For the Prevention of Disease Only!' He 
had a whistle he wasn't going to show anybody until he got promoted to corporal. He had 
a dirty picture of a woman attempting sexual intercourse with a Shetland pony. He had 
made Billy Pilgrim admire that picture several times. 

The woman and the pony were posed before velvet draperies which were fringed with 
deedlee-balls. They were flanked by Doric columns. In front of one column was a potted 
palm. The Picture that Weary had was a print of the first dirty photograph in history. The 
word photography was first used in 1839, and it was in that year, too, that Louis J. M. 
Daguerre revealed to the French Academy that an image formed on a silvered metal plate 
covered with a thin film of silver iodide could be developed in the presence of mercury 
vapor. 

In 1841, only two years later, an assistant to Daguerre, Andre Le Fevre, was arrested in 
the Tuileries Gardens for attempting to sell a gentleman a picture of the woman and the 
pony. That was where Weary bought his picture,, too-in the Tuileries. Le Fevre argued 
that the picture was fine art, and that his intention was to make Greek mythology come 
alive. He said that columns and the potted palm proved that. 

When asked which myth he meant to represent, Le Fevre, replied that there were 
thousands of myths like that, with the woman a mortal and the pony a god. 

He was sentenced to six months in prison. He died there of pneumonia. So it goes. 

Billy and the Scouts were skinny people. Roland Weary had fat to burn. He was a 
roaring furnace under all his layers of wool and straps and canvas. He had so much 
energy that he bustled back and forth between Billy and the scouts, delivering dumb 
messages which nobody had sent and which nobody was pleased to receive. He also 
began to suspect, since he was so much busier than anybody else, that he was the leader. 

He was so hot and bundled up, in fact, that he had no sense of danger. His vision of the 
outside world was limited to what he could see through a narrow slit between the rim of 
his helmet and his scarf from home, which concealed his baby face from the bridge of his 



nose on down. He was so snug in there that he was able to pretend that he was safe at 
home, having survived the war, and that he was telling his parents and his sister a true 
war story-whereas the true war story was still going on. 

Weary's version of the true war story went like this: There was a big German attack, 
and Weary and his antitank buddies fought like hell until everybody was killed but 
Weary. So it goes. And then Weary tied in with two scouts, and they became close 
friends immediately, and they decided to fight them way back to their own lines. They 
were going to travel fast. They were damned if they'd surrender. They shook hands all 
around. They called themselves 'The Three Musketeers.’ 

But then this damn college kid, who was so weak he shouldn't even have been in the 
army, asked if he could come along. He didn’t even have a gun or a knife. He didn’t even 
have a helmet or a cap. He couldn’t even walk right-kept bobbing up-and down, up-and- 
down, driving everybody crazy, giving their position away. He was pitiful. The Three 
Musketeers pushed and carried and dragged the college kid all the way back to their own 
lines, Weary's story went. They saved his God-damned hide for him. 

In. real life, Weary was retracing his steps, trying to find out what had happened to 
Billy. He had told the scouts to wait while he went back for the college bastard. He 
passed under a low branch now. It hit the top of his helmet with a clonk. Weary didn’t 
hear it. Somewhere a big dog was barking. Weary didn’t hear that, either. His war story 
was at a very exciting point. An officer was congratulating the Three Musketeers, telling 
them that he was going to put them in for Bronze Stars. 

'Anything else I can do for you boys?' said the officer. 

'Yes, sir,' said one of the scouts. 'We’d like to stick together for the rest of the war, sir. 
Is there some way you can fix it so nobody will ever break up the Three Musketeers?' 

Billy Pilgrim had stopped in the forest. He was leaning against a tree with his eyes 
closed. His head was tilted back and his nostrils were flaring. He was like a poet in the 
Parthenon. 

This was when Billy first came unstuck in time. His attention began to swing grandly 
through the full arc of his life, passing into death, which was violet light. There wasn't 
anybody else there, or any thing. There was just violet light and a hum. 

And then Billy swung into life again, going backwards until he was in pre-birth, which 
was red light and bubbling sounds. And then he swung into life again and stopped. He 
was a little boy taking a shower with his hairy father at the Ilium Y.M.C.A. He smelled 
chlorine from the swimming pool next door, heard the springboard boom. 

Little Billy was terrified, because his father had said Billy was going to leam to swim 
by the method of sink-or-swim. Ms father was going to throw Billy into the deep end, and 
Billy was going to damn well swim. 

It was like an execution. Billy was numb as his father carried him from the shower 
room to the pool. His eyes were closed. When he opened his eyes, he was on the bottom 
of the pool, and there was beautiful music everywhere. He lost consciousness, but the 
music went on. He dimly sensed that somebody was rescuing him. Billy resented that. 

From there he traveled in time to 1965. He was forty-one years old, and he was visiting 
his decrepit mother at Pine Knoll, an old people's home he had put her in only a month 
before. She had caught pneumonia, and wasn't expected to live. She did live, though, for 
years after that. 



Her voice was nearly gone, so, in order to hear her, Billy had to put his ear right next to 
her papery lips. She evidently had something very important to say. 

'How ...?' she began, and she stopped. She was too tired. She hoped that she wouldn’t 
have to say the rest of the sentence, and that Billy would finish it for her 

But Billy had no idea what was on her mind. 'How what, Mother?’ he prompted. 

She swallowed hard, shed some tears. Then she gathered energy from all over her 
ruined body, even from her toes and fingertips. At last she bad accumulated enough to 
whisper this complete sentence: 

'How did I get so old? ’ 

Billy's antique mother passed out, and Billy was led from the room by a pretty nurse. 
The body of an old man covered by a sheet was wheeled by just as Billy entered the 
corridor. The man had been a famous marathon runner in his day. So it goes. This was 
before Billy had his head broken in an airplane crash, by the way-before he became so 
vocal about flying saucers and traveling in time. 

Billy sat down in a waiting room. He wasn’t a widower yet. He sensed something hard 
under the cushion of his overstuffed chair. He dug it out, discovered that it was a book, 
The Execution of Private Slovik, by William Bradford Huie. It was a true account of the 
death before an American fixing squad of private Eddie D. Slovik, 36896415, the only 
American soldier to be shot for cowardice since the Civil War. So it goes. 

Billy read the opinion of a staff judge advocate who reviewed Slovik's case, which 
ended like this: He has directly challenged the authority of the government, and future 
discipline depends upon a resolute reply to this challenge. If the death penalty is ever to 
be imposed for desertion, it should be imposed in this case, not as a punitive measure nor 
as retribution, but to maintain that discipline upon which alone an anny can succeed 
against the enemy. There was no recommendation for clemency in the case and none is 
here recommended. So it goes. 

Billy bli nk ed in 1965, traveled in time to 1958. He was at a banquet in honour of a 
Little League team of which his son Robert was a member. The coach, who had never 
been married, was speaking. He was all choked up. 'Honest to God,’ he was Saying, 'I'd 
consider it an honor just to be water boy for these kids.' 

Billy blinked in 1958, traveled in time to 1961. It was New Year's Eve, and Billy was 
disgracefully drunk at a party where everybody was in optometry or married to an 
optometrist. 

Billy usually didn't drink much, because the war had ruined his stomach, but he 
certainly had a snootful now, and he was being unfaithful to his wife Valencia for the 
first and only time. He had somehow persuaded a woman to come into the laundry room 
of the house, and then sit up on the gas dryer, which was running. 

The woman was very drunk herself, and she helped Billy get her girdle off. 'What was 
it you wanted to talk about?' she said. 

'It's all night,' said Billy. He honestly thought it was all right. He couldn’t remember the 
name of the woman. 

'How come they call you Billy instead of William?' 



’Business reasons,' said Billy. That was true. His father-in-law, who owned the Ilium 
School of Optometry, who had set Billy up in practice, was a genius in his field. He told 
Billy to encourage people to call him Billy-because it would stick in their memories. It 
would also make him seem slightly magical, since there weren't any other grown Billys 
around. It also compelled people to think of him as a friend right away. 

Somewhere in there was an awful scene, with people expressing disgust for Billy and 
the woman, and Billy found himself out in his automobile, trying to find the steering 
wheel. 

The main thing now was to find the steering wheel. At first, Billy windmilled his arms, 
hoping to find it by luck. When that didn’t work, he became methodical, working in such 
a way that the wheel could not possibly escape him. He placed himself hard against the 
left-hand door, searched every square inch of the area before him. When he failed to find 
the wheel, he moved over six inches, and searched again. Amazingly, he was eventually 
hard against the right-hand door, without having found the wheel. He concluded that 
somebody had stolen it. This angered him as he passed out. 

He was in the back seat of his car., which was why he couldn’t find the steering wheel. 

Now somebody was shaking Billy awake. Billy stiff felt drunk, was still angered by the 
stolen steering wheel. He was back in the Second World War again, behind the German 
lines. The person who was shaking him was Roland Weary. Weary had gathered the front 
of Billy's field jacket into his hands. He banged Billy against a tree, then puffed him 
away from it, flung him in the direction he was supposed to take under his own power. 

Billy stopped, shook his head. 'You go on,’ he said. 

'What? ’ 

'You guys go on without me. I'm all right.’ 

'You're what?' 

'I'm O.K.’ 

'Jesus-I’d hate to see somebody sick,' said Weary, through five layers of humid scarf 
from home. Lilly had never seen Weary's face. He had tried to imagine it one time, had 
imagined a toad in a fishbowl. 

Weary kicked and shoved Billy for a quarter of a mile. The scouts were waiting 
between the banks of a frozen creek. They had heard the dog. They had heard men calling 
back and forth, too-calling like hunters who had a pretty good idea of where their quarry 
was. 

The banks of the creek were high enough to allow the scouts, to stand without being 
seen. Billy staggered down the bank ridiculously. After him came Weary, clanking and 
clinking and tinkling and hot. 

'Here he is, boys,' said Weary. 'He don't want to live, but he's gonna live anyway. 

When he gets out of this, by God, he's gonna owe his life to the Three Musketeers. ’ 

Billy Pilgrim, there in the creekbed, thought he, Billy Pilgrim, was turning to steam 
painlessly. If everybody would leave him alone for just a little while, he thought, he 
wouldn't cause anybody any more trouble. He would turn to steam and float up among 
the treetops. 

Somewhere the big dog barked again. With the help of fear and echoes and winter 
silences, that dog had a voice like a big bronze gong. 



Roland Weary, eighteen years old, insinuated himself between the scouts, draped a 
heavy arm around the shoulder of each. ’So what do the Three Musketeers do now?’ he 
said. 

Billy Pilgrim was having a delightful hallucination. He was wearing dry, warm, white 
sweatsocks, and he was skating on a ballroom floor. Thousands cheered. This wasn't 
time-travel, it had never happened, never would happen. It was the craziness of a dying 
young man with his shoes full of snow. 

One scout hung his head, let spit fall from his lips. The other did the same. They 
studied the infinitesimal effects of spit on snow and history. They were small, graceful 
people. They had been behind Gennan lines before many times- living like woods 
creatures, living from moment to moment in useful terror, thinking brainlessly with their 
spinal cords. 

Now they twisted out from under Weary's loving arms. They told Weary that he and 
Billy had better find somebody to surrender to. The Scouts weren’t going to wait for them 
any more. 

And they ditched Weary and Billy in the creekbed. 

Billy Pilgrim went on skating, doing tricks in sweat-socks, tricks that most people 
would consider impossible-making turns, stopping on a dime and so on. The cheering 
went on, but its tone was altered as the hallucination gave way to time-travel. 

Billy stopped skating, found himself at a lectern in a Chinese restaurant in Ilium, New 
York, on an early afternoon in the autumn of 1957. He was receiving a standing ovation 
from the Lions Club. He had just been elected President, and it was necessary that he 
speak. He was scared stiff, thought a ghastly mistake had been made. AR those 
prosperous, solid men out there would discover now that they had elected a ludicrous 
waif. They would hear his reedy voice, the one he’d had in the war. He swallowed, knew 
that all he -had for a voice box was a little whistle cut from a willow switch. Worse-he 
had nothing to say. The crowd quieted down. Everybody was pink and beaming. 

Billy opened his mouth, and out came a deep, resonant tone. His voice was a gorgeous 
instrument. It told jokes which brought down the house. It grew serious, told jokes again, 
and ended on a note of humility. The explanation of the miracle was this: Billy had taken 
a course in public speaking. 

And then he was back in the bed of the frozen creek again. Roland Weary was about to 
beat the living shit out of him. 

Weary was filled with a tragic wrath. He had been ditched again. He stuffed his pistol 
into its holster. He slipped his knife into its scabbard. Its triangular blade and blood 
gutters on all three faces. And then he shook Billy hard, rattled his skeleton, slammed 
him against a bank. 

Weary barked and whimpered through his layers of scarf from home. He spoke 
unintelligibly of the sacrifices he had made on Billy's behalf. He dilated upon the piety 
and heroism of'The Three Musketeers,' portrayed, in the most glowing and impassioned 
hues, their virtue and magnanimity, the imperishable honor they acquired for themselves, 
and the great services they rendered to Christianity, 



It was entirely Billy's fault that this fighting organization no longer existed, Weary felt, 
and Billy was going to pay. Weary socked Billy a good one on the side of the jaw, 
knocked Billy away from the ha nk and onto the snow-covered ice of the creek. Billy was 
down on all fours on the ice, and Weary kicked him in the ribs, rolled him over on his 
side. Billy tried to form himself into a ball. 

'You shouldn’t even be in the Army,' said Weary. 

Billy was involuntarily making convulsive sounds that were a lot like laughter. 'You 
think it's funny, huh?' Weary inquired. He walked around to Billy's back. Billy's jacket 
and shirt and undershirt had been hauled up around his shoulders by the violence, so his 
back was naked. There, inches from the tips of Weary's combat boots, were the pitiful 
buttons of Billy's spine. 

Weary drew back his right boot, aimed a kick at the spine, at the tube which had so 
many of Billy's important wires in it. Weary was going to break that tube. 

But then Weary saw that he had an audience. Five German soldiers and a police dog on 
a leash were looking down into the bed of the creek. The soldiers' blue eyes were filled 
with bleary civilian curiosity as to why one American would try to murder another one so 
far from home, and why the victim should laugh. 

Three 

The Germans and the dog were engaged in a military operation which had an amusingly 
self-explanatory name, a human enterprise which is seldom described in detail, whose 
name alone, when reported as news or history, gives many war enthusiasts a sort of post- 
coital satisfaction. It is, in the imagination of combat's fans, the divinely listless loveplay 
that follows the orgasm of victory. It is called 'mopping up.' 

The dog, who had sounded so ferocious in the winter distances, was a female German 
shepherd. She was shivering. Her tail was between her legs. She had been borrowed that 
morning from a farmer. She had never been to war before. She had no idea what game 
was being played. Her mine was Princess. 

Two of the Germans were boys in their early teens. Two were ramshackle old me 
droolers as toothless as carp. They were irregulars, anned and clothed fragmentarily with 
junk taken from real soldiers who were newly dead. So it goes. They were farmers from 
just across the German border, not far away. 

Their commanander was a middle-aged corporal-red-eyed., scrawny, tough as dried 
beef, sick of war. He had been wounded four times-and patched up, and sent back to war. 
He was a very good soldier-about to quit, about to find somebody to surrender to. His 
bandy legs were thrust into golden cavalry boots which he had taken from a dead 
Hungarian colonel on the Russian front. So it goes. 

Those boots were almost all he owned in this world. They were his home. An 
anecdote: One time a recruit was watching him bone and wax those golden boots, and he 
held one up to the recruit and said, 'If you look in there deeply enough, you'll see Adam 
and Eve.’ 

Billy Pilgrim had not heard this anecdote. But, lying on the black ice there, Billy stared 
into the patina of the corporal's boots, saw Adam and Eve in the golden depths. They 
were naked. They were so innocent, so vulnerable, so eager to behave decently. Billy 
Pilgrim loved them. 



Next to the golden boots were a pair of feet which were swaddled in rags. They were 
crisscrossed by canvas straps, were shod with hinged wooden clogs. Billy looked up at 
the face that went with the clogs. It was the face of a blond angel of fifteen-year-old boy. 

The boy was as beautiful as Eve. 

Billy was helped to his feet by the lovely boy, by the heavenly androgyne. And the 
others came forward to dust the snow off Billy., and then they searched him for weapons. 
He didn’t have any. The most dangerous thing they found on his person was a two-inch 
pencil stub. 

Three inoffensive bangs came from far away. They came from German rifles. The two 
scouts who had ditched Billy and Weary had just been shot. They had been lying in 
ambush for Gennans. They had been discovered and shot from behind. Now they were 
dying in the snow, feeling nothing, turning the snow to the color of raspberry sherbet. So 
it goes. So Roland Weary was the last of the Three Musketeers. 

And Weary, bug-eyed with terror, was being disarmed. The corporal gave Weary's 
pistol to the pretty boy. He marveled at Weary's cruel trench knife, said in Gennan that 
Weary would no doubt like to use the knife on him, to tear his face off with the spiked 
knuckles, to stick the blade into his belly or throat. He spoke no English, and Billy and 
Weary understood no German. 

'Nice playthings you have, the corporal told Weary, and he handed the knife to an old 
man. 'Isn't that a pretty thing? Hmmm? 

He tore open Weary's overcoat and blouse. Brass buttons flew like popcorn. The 
corporal reached into Weary's gaping bosom as though he meant to tear out his pounding 
heart, but he brought out Weary's bulletproof Bible instead. 

A bullet-proof Bible is a Bible small enough to be slipped into a soldier's breast 
pocket, over his heart. It is sheathed in steel. 

The corporal found the dirty picture of the woman and the pony in Weary's hip pocket. 
'What a lucky pony, eh?’ he said. "Hmmmm? H mmmm ? Don’t you wish you were that 
pony?' He handed the picture to the other old man. 'Spoils of war! It’s all yours, you lucky 
lad.’ 

Then he made Weary sit down in the snow and take off his combat boots, which he 
gave to the beautiful boy. He gave Weary, the boy's clogs. So Weary and Billy were both 
without decent military footwear now' and they had to walk for miles and miles, with 
Weary's clogs clacking, with Billy bobbing up-and-down, up-and-down, crashing into 
Weary from time to time. 

'Excuse me,’ Billy would say, or 'I beg your pardon.' 

They were brought at last to a stone cottage at a fork in the road. It was a collecting 
point for prisoners of war. Billy and Weary were taken inside, where it was wann and 
smoky. There vas a fire sizzling and popping in the fireplace. The fuel was furniture. 
There were about twenty other Americans in there, sitting on the floor with their backs to 
the wall, staring into the flames-thinking whatever there was to think, which was zero. 
Nobody talked. Nobody had any good war stories to tell. 



Billy and Weary found places for themselves, and Billy went to sleep with his head on 
the shoulder of an unprotesting captain. The captain was a chaplain. He was a rabbi. He 
had been shot through the hand. 

Billy traveled in time, opened his eyes, found himself staring into the glass eyes of a 
jade green mechanical owl. The owl was hanging upside down from a rod of stainless 
steel. The owl was Billy's optometer in his office in Ilium. An optometer is an instrument 
for measuring refractive errors in eyes-in order that corrective lenses may be prescribed. 

Billy had fallen asleep while examining a female patient who was m a chair on the 
other side of the owl. He had fallen asleep at work before. It had been funny at first. Now 
Billy was starting to get worried about it, about his mind in general. He tried to remember 
how old he was, couldn’t. He tried to remember what year it was. He couldn't remember 
that, either. 

'Doctor,' said the patient tentatively. 

'Hm?' he said. 

'You're so quiet.’ 

'Sorry.' 

'You were talking away there-and then you got so quiet' 

'Urn.' 

'You see something terrible?' 'Terrible?' 

'Some disease in my eyes?' 

'No, no,' said Billy, wanting to doze again. 'Your eyes are fine. You just need glasses 
for reading.' He told her to go across the corridor-to see the wide selection of frames 
there. 

When she was gone, Billy opened the drapes and was no wiser as to what was outside. 
The view was still blocked by a Venetian blind., which he hoisted clatteringly. Bright 
sunlight came crashing in. There were thousands of parked automobiles out there, 
twinkling on a vast lake of blacktop. Billy's office was part of a suburban shopping 
center. 

Right outside the window was Billy's own Cadillac El Dorado Coupe de Ville. He read 
the stickers on the bumper. 'Visit Ausable Chasm,’ said one. 'Support Your Police 
Department,' said another. There was a third. 'Impeach Earl Warren it said. The stickers 
about the police and Earl Warren were gifts from Billy's father-in-law, a member of the 
John Birch Society. The date on the license plate was 1967, which would make Billy 
Pilgrim forty-four years old. He asked himself this: 'Where have all the years gone?' 

Billy turned his attention to his desk. There was an open copy of The Review of 
Optometry there. It was opened to an editorial, which Billy now read, his lips moving 
slightly. 

What happens in 1968 will rule the fare of European optometrists for at least 50 years! 
Billy read. With this warning, Jean Thiriart, Secretary of the National Union of Belgium 
Opticians, is pressing for formation of a 'European Optometry Society.' The alternatives, 
he says, will be the obtaining of Professional status, or, by 1971, reduction to the role of 
spectacle-sellers. 

Billy Pilgrim tried hard to care. 



A siren went off, scared the hell out of him. He was expecting the Third World War at 
any time. The siren was simply announcing high noon. It was housed in a cupola atop a 
firehouse across the street from Billy's office. 

Billy closed his eyes. When he opened them, he was back in the Second World War 
again. His head was on the wounded rabbi’s shoulder. A Gennan was kicking his feet, 
telling him to wake up, that it was time to move on. 

The Americans, with Billy among them, formed a fools' parade on the road outside. 

There was a photographer present, a Gennan war correspondent with a Leica. He took 
pictures of Billy's and Roland Weary's feet. The picture was widely published two days 
later as heartening evidence of how miserably equipped the American Anny often was, 
despite its reputation for being rich. 

The photographer wanted something more lively, though, a picture of an actual 
capture. So the guards staged one for him. They threw Billy into shrubbery. When Billy 
came out of the shrubbery, his face wreathed in goofy good will, they menaced him with 
their machine pistols, as though they were capturing him then. 

Billy's smile as he came out of the shrubbery was at least as peculiar as Mona Lisa's, 
for he was simultaneously on foot in Gennany in 1944 and riding his Cadillac in 1967. 
Germany dropped away, and 1967 became bright and clear, free of interference from any 
other time. Billy was on his way to a Lions Club luncheon meeting. It was a hot August, 
but Billy's car was air-conditioned. He was stopped by a signal in the middle of Ilium's 
black ghetto. The people who lived here hated it so much that they had burned down a lot 
of it a month before. It was all they had, and they’d wrecked it. The neighborhood 
reminded Billy of some of the towns he had seen in the war. The curbs and sidewalks 
were crushed in many places, showing where the National Guard tanks and half-tracks 
had been. 

'Blood brother,' said a message written in pink paint on the side of a shattered grocery 
store. 

There was a tap on Billy's car window. A black man was out there. He wanted to talk 
about something. The light had changed. Billy did the simplest thing. He drove on. 

Billy drove through a scene of even greater desolation. It looked like Dresden after it 
was fire-bombed-like the surface of the moon. The house where Billy had grown up used 
to be somewhere in what was so empty now. This was urban renewal. A new Ilium 
Government Center and a Pavilion of the Arts and a Peace Lagoon and high-rise 
apartment buildings were going up here soon. 

That was all right with Billy Pilgrim. 

The speaker at the Lions Club meeting was a major in the Marines. He said that 
Americans had no choice but to keep fighting in Vietnam until they achieved victory or 
until the Communists realized that they could not force their way of life -on weak 
countries. The major had been there on two separate tours of duty. He told of many 
terrible and many wonderful things he had seen. He was in favor of increased bombings, 
of bombing North Vietnam back into the Stone Age, if it refused to see reason. 



Billy was not moved to protest the bombing of North Vietnam-, did not shudder about 
the hideous things he himself had seen bombing do. He was simply having lunch with 
the Lions Club, of which he was past president now. 

Billy had a framed prayer on his office wall which expressed his method for keeping 
going, even though he was unenthusiastic about living. A lot of patients who saw the 
prayer on Billy's wall told him that it helped them to keep going,, too. It went like this 

GOD GRANT ME 
THE SERENITY TO ACCEPT 
THE THINGS I CANNOT CHANGE 
COURAGE 

TO CHANGE THE THINGS I CAN, 

AND WISDOM ALWAYS 
TO TELL THE 
DIFFERENCE. 

Among the things Billy Pilgrim could not change were the past, the present and the 
future. 

Now he was being introduced to the Marine major. The person who was performing 
the introduction was telling the major that Billy was a veteran., and that Billy had a son 
who was a sergeant in the Green Berets-in Vietnam. 

The major told Billy that the Green Berets were doing a great job, and that he should 
be proud of his son. 

'I am. I certainly am,’ said Billy Pilgrim. 

He went home for a nap after lunch. He was under doctor's orders to take a nap every 
day. The doctor hoped that this would relieve a complaint that Billy had: Every so often, 
for no apparent reason, Billy Pilgrim would find himself weeping. Nobody had ever 
caught Billy doing it. Only the doctor knew. It was an extremely quiet thing Billy did, 
and not very moist. 

Billy owned a lovely Georgian home in Ilium. He was rich as Croesus, something he 
had never expected to be, not in a million years. He had five other optometrists working 
for him in the shopping plaza location, and netted over sixty thousand dollars a year. In 
addition, he owned a fifth of the new Holiday Inn out on Route 54, and -half of three 
Tastee-Freeze stands. Tastee-Freeze was a sort of frozen custard. It gave all the pleasure 
that ice cream could give, without the stiffness and bitter coldness of ice cream. 

Billy's home was empty. His daughter Barbara was about to get warned, and she and 
his wife had gone downtown to pick out patterns for her crystal and silverware. There 
was a note saying so on the kitchen table. There were no servants. People just weren't 
interested in careers in domestic service anymore. There wasn't a dog, either. 



There used to be a dog named Spot, but he died. So it goes. Billy had liked Spot a lot, 
and Spot had liked him. 

Billy went up the carpeted stairway and into his and his wife's bedroom. The room had 
flowered wallpaper. There was a double bed with a clock-radio on a table beside it. Also 
on the table were controls for the electric blanket, and a switch to turn on a gentle 
vibrator which was bolted to the springs of the box mattress. The trade name of the 
vibrator was 'Magic Fingers.' The vibrator was the doctor's idea, too. 

Billy took off his tri-focals and his coat and his necktie and his shoes, and he closed the 
Venetian blinds and then the drapes, and he lay down on the outside of the coverlet. But 
sleep would not come. Tears came instead. They seeped. Billy turned on the Magic 
Fingers, and he was jiggled as he wept. 

The doorchimes rang. Billy got off the bed and looked down through a window at the 
front doorstep, to see if somebody important had come to call. There was a crippled man 
down there, as spastic in space as Billy Pilgrim was in time. Convulsions made the man 
dance flappingly all the time, made him change his expressions, too, as though he were 
trying to imitate various famous movie stars. 

Another cripple was ringing a doorbell across the street. He was an crutches. He had 
only one leg. He was so jammed between his crutches that his shoulders hid his ears. 

Billy knew what the cripples were up to: They were selling subscriptions to magazines 
that would never come. People subscribed to them because the salesmen were so pitiful. 
Billy had heard about this racket from a speaker at the Lions Club two weeks before—a 
man from the Better Business Bureau. The man said that anybody who saw cripples 
working a neighbourhood for magazine subscriptions should call the police. 

Billy looked down the street, saw a new, Buick Riviera parked about half a block 
away. There was a man in it, and Billy assumed correctly that he was the man who had 
hired the cripples to do this thing. Billy went on weeping as he contemplated the cripples 
and their boss. His doorchimes clanged hellishly. 

He closed his eyes, and opened them again, lie was still weeping, but he was back in 
Luxembourg again. He was marching with a lot of other prisoners. It was a winter wind 
that was bringing tears to his eyes. 

Ever since Billy had been thrown into shrubbery for the sake of the picture, he had 
been seeing Saint Elmo's fire, a sort of electronic radiance around the heads of his 
companions and captors. It was in the treetops and on the rooftops of Luxembourg, too. It 
was beautiful. 

Billy was marching with his hands on top of his head, and so were all the other 
Americans. Billy was bobbing up-and-down, up-and-down. Now he crashed into Roland 
Weary accidentally. 'I beg your pardon,’ he said. 

Weary's eyes were tearful also. Weary was crying because of horrible pains in his feet. 
The hinged clogs were transfonning his feet into blood puddings. 

At each road intersection Billy's group was joined by more Americans with their hands 
on top of their haloed heads. Billy had smiled for them all. They were moving like water, 
downhill all the time, and they flowed at last to a main highway on a valley's floor. 
Through the valley flowed a Mississippi of humiliated Americans. Tens of thousands of 



Americans shuffled eastward, their hands clasped on top of their heads. They sighed and 
groaned. 

Billy and his group joined the river of humiliation, and the late afternoon sun came out 
from the clouds. The Americans didn’t have the road to themselves. The west-bound lane 
boiled and boomed with vehicles which were rushing German reserves to the front. The 
reserves were violent, windbumed, bristly men. They had teeth like piano keys. 

They were festooned with machine-gun belts, smoked cigars, and guzzled booze. They 
took wolfish bites from sausages, patted their horny palms with potato-masher grenades. 

One soldier in black was having a drunk herd's picnic all by himself on top of a tank. 
He spit on the Americans. The spit hit Roland Weary's shoulder, gave Weary a 
fourragiere of snot and blutwurst and tobacco juice, and Schnapps. 

Billy found the afternoon stingingly exciting. There was so much to see-dragon's teeth, 
killing machine, corpses with bare feet that were blue and ivory. So it goes. 

Bobbing up-and-down, up-and-down, Billy beamed lovingly at a bright lavender 
farmhouse that had been spattered with machine-gun bullets. Standing in its cock-eyed 
doorway was a Gennan colonel. With him was his unpainted whore. 

Billy crashed into Weary's shoulder, and Weary cried out sobbingly. 'Walk right! Walk 
right!' 

They were climbing a gentle rise now. When they reached the top, they weren’t in 
Luxembourg any more. They were in Germany. 

A motion-picture camera was set up at the border-to record the fabulous victory. Two 
civilians in bearskin coats were leaning on the camera when Billy and Weary came by. 
They had run out of film hours ago. 

One of them singled out Billy's face for a moment, then focused at infinity again. 

There was a tiny plume of smoke at infinity. There was a battle there. People were dying 
there. So it goes. 

And the sun went down, and Billy found himself bobbing in place in a railroad yard. 
There were rows and rows of boxcars waiting. They had brought reserves to the front. 
Now they were going to take prisoners into Germany's interior. 

Flashlight beams danced crazily. 

The Germans sorted out the prisoners according to rank. They put sergeants with 
sergeants, majors with majors, and so on. A squad of full colonels was halted near Billy. 
One of them had double pneumonia. He had a high fever and vertigo. As the railroad yard 
dipped and swooped around the colonel, he tried to hold himself steady by staring into 
Billy's eyes. 

The colonel coughed and coughed, and then he said to Billy, 'You one of my boys?' 
This was a man who had lost an entire regiment, about forty-five hundred men-a lot of 
them children, actually. Billy didn’t reply. The question made no sense. 

'What was your outfit?' said the colonel. He coughed and coughed. Every time he 
inhaled his lungs rattled like greasy paper bags. 

Billy couldn’t remember the outfit he was from. 

'You from the Four-fifty-first?' 

'Four-fifty-first what?' said Billy. 

There was a silence. 'Infantry regiment,' said the colonel at last. 



’Oh,’ said Billy Pilgrim. 


There was another long silence, with the colonel dying and dying, drowning where he 
stood. And then he cited out wetly, ’It’s me, boys! It's Wild Bob!' That is what he had 
always wanted his troops to call him: 'Wild Bob.’ 

None of the people who could hear him were actually from his regiment, except for 
Roland Weary, and Weary wasn't listening. All Weary could think of was the agony in 
his own feet. 

But the colonel imagined that he was addressing his beloved troops for the last time, 
and he told them that they had nothing to be ashamed of, that there were dead Germans 
all over the battlefield who wished to God that they had never heard of the Four-fifty- 
first. He said that after the war he was going to have a regimental reunion in his home 
town, which was Cody, Wyoming. He was going to barbecue whole steers. 

He said all this while staring into Billy's eyes. He made the inside of poor Bill's skull 
echo with balderdash. 'God be with you, boys!’ he said, and that echoed and echoed. And 
then he said. 'If you're ever in Cody, Wyoming, just ask for Wild Bob!’ I was there. So 
was my old war buddy, Bernard V. O'Hare. 

Billy Pilgrim was packed into a boxcar with many other privates. He and Roland 
Weary were separated. Weary was packed into another car in the same train. 

There were narrow ventilators at the comers of the car, under the eaves. Billy stood by 
one of these, and, as the crowd pressed against him, he climbed part way up a diagonal 
comer brace to make more room. 'Ms placed his eyes on a level with the ventilator, so he 
could see another train about ten yards away. 

Germans were writing on the cars with blue chalk-the number of persons in each car, 
their rank, their nationality, the date on which they had been put aboard. Other Germans 
were securing the hasps on the car doors with wire and spikes and other trackside trash. 
Billy could hear somebody writing on his car, too, but he couldn’t see who was doing it. 

Most of the privates on Billy's car were very young-at the end of childhood. But 
crammed into the comer with Billy was a former hobo who was forty years old. 

'I been hungrier than this,' the hobo told Billy. 'I been m worse places than this. This 
ain’t so bad.’ 

A man in a boxcar across the way called out through the ventilator that a man. had just 
died in there. So it goes. There were four guards who heard him. They weren’t excited by 
the news. 

'Yo, yo,' said one, nodding dreamily. 'Yo, yo.’ 

And the guards didn’t open the car with the dead man in it. They opened the next car 
instead, and Billy Pilgrim was enchanted by what was in there. It was like heaven. There 
was candlelight, and there were hu nk s with quilts and blankets heaped on them. There 
was a cannonball stove with a steaming coffeepot on top. There was a table with a bottle 
of wine and a loaf of bread and a sausage on it. There were four bowls of soup. 

There were pictures of castles and lakes and pretty girls on the walls. This was the 
rolling home of the railroad guards, men whose business it was to be forever guarding 
freight rolling from here to there. The four guards went inside and closed the door. 



A little while later they came out smoking cigars, talking contentedly in the mellow 
lower register of the German language. One of them saw Billy's face at the ventilator. He 
wagged a linger at him in affectionate warning, telling him to be a good boy. 

The Americans across the way told the guards again about the dead man on their car. 
The guards got a stretcher out of their own cozy car, opened the dead man’s car and went 
inside. The dead man's car wasn’t crowded at all. There were just six live colonels in 
there-and one dead one. 

The Germans carried the corpse out. The corpse was Wild Bob. So it goes. 

During the night, some of the locomotives began to tootle to one another, and then to 
move. The locomotive and the last car of each train were marked with a striped banner of 
orange and black, indicating that the train was not fair game for airplanes that it was 
carrying prisoners of war. 

The war was nearly over. The locomotives began to move east in late December. The 
war would end in May. Gennan prisons everywhere were absolutely full, and there was 
no longer any food for the prisoners to eat, and no longer any fuel to keep them warm. 
And yet-here came more prisoners. 

Billy Pilgrim's train, the longest train of all, did not move for two days. 

'This ain't bad,’ the hobo told Billy on the second day. 'This ain't nothing at all.’ 

Billy looked out through the ventilator. The railroad yard was a desert now, except for 
a hospital train marked with red crosses-on a siding far, far away. Its locomotive 
whistled. The locomotive of Billy Pilgrim’s train whistled back. They were saying, 

’Hello.’ 

Even though Billy's train wasn't moving., its boxcars were kept locked tight. Nobody 
was to get off until the final destination. To the guards who walked up and down outside, 
each car became a single organism which ate and drank and excreted through its 
ventilators. It talked or sometimes yelled through its ventilators, too. In went water and 
loaves of blackbread and sausage and cheese, and out came shit and piss and language. 

Human beings in there were excreting into steel helmets, which were passed to the 
people at the ventilators, who dumped them. Billy was a dumper. The human beings also 
passed canteens, which guards would fill with water. When food came in, the human 
beings were quiet and trusting and beautiful. They shared. 

Human beings in there took turns standing or lying down. The legs of those who stood 
were like fence posts driven into a warm., squirming, fatting, sighing earth. The queer 
earth was a mosaic of sleepers who nestled like spoons. 

Now the train began to creep eastward. 

Somewhere in there was Christmas. Billy Pilgrim nestled like a spoon with the hobo 
on Christmas night, and he fell asleep, and he traveled in time to 1967 again-to the night 
he was kidnapped by a flying saucer from Tralfamadore. 


Four 



Billy Pilgrim could not sleep on his daughters wedding night. He was forty-four. The 
wedding had taken place that afternoon in a gaily striped tent in Billy's backyard. The 
stripes were orange and black. 

Billy and his wife, Valencia, nestled like spoons in their big double bed. They were 
jiggled by Magic Fingers. Valencia didn’t need to be jiggled to sleep. Valencia was 
snoring like a bandsaw. The poor woman didn’t have ovaries or a uterus any more. 

They had been removed by a surgeon-by one of Billy's partners in the New Holiday 
Inn. 

There was a full moon. 

Billy got out of bed in the moonlight. He felt spooky and luminous felt as though he 
were wrapped in cool fur that was full of static electricity. He looked down at his bare 
feet. They were ivory and blue. 

Billy now shuffled down his upstairs hallway, knowing he was about to be kidnapped 
by a flying saucer. The hallway was zebra-striped with darkness and moonlight. The 
moonlight came into the hallway through doorways of the empty rooms of Billy's two 
children, children no more. They were gone forever. Billy was guided by dread and the 
lack of dread. Dread told him when to stop. Lack of it told him when to move again. He 
stopped. 

He went into his daughter's room. Her drawers were dumped, her closet was empty. 
Heaped in the middle of the room were all the possessions she could not take on a 
honeymoon. She had a Princess telephone extension all her own-on her windowsill Its 
tiny night light stared at Billy. And then it rang. 

Billy answered. There was a drunk on the other end. Billy could almost smell his 
breath-mustard gas and roses. It was a wrong number. Billy hung up. There was a soft 
drink bottle on the windowsill. Its label boasted that it contained no nourishment 
whatsoever. 

Billy Pilgrim padded downstairs on his blue and ivory feet. He went into the kitchen, 
where the moonlight called his attention to a half bottle of champagne on the kitchen 
table, all that was left from the reception in the tent. Somebody had stoppered it again. 
Drink me,' it seemed to say. 

So Billy uncorked it with his thumbs. It didn’t make a pop. The champagne was dead. 
So it goes. 

Billy looked at the clock on the gas stove. He had an hour to kill before the saucer 
came. He went into the living room, swinging the bottle like a dinner bell, turned on the 
television. He came slightly unstuck in time, saw the late movie backwards, then 
forwards again. It was a movie about American bombers in the Second World War and 
the gallant men who flew them. Seen backwards by Billy, the story went like this: 

American planes, full of holes and wounded men and corpses took off backwards from 
an airfield in England. Over France a few German fighter planes flew at them backwards, 
sucked bullets and shell fragments from some of the planes and crewmen. They did the 
same for wrecked American bombers on the ground, and those planes flew up backwards 
to join the fonnation. 

The formation flew backwards over a Gennan city that was in flames. The bombers 
opened their bomb bay doors, exerted a miraculous magnetism which shrunk the fires, 



gathered them into cylindrical steel containers, and lifted the containers into the bellies of 
the planes. The containers were stored neatly in racks. The Germans below had 
miraculous devices of their own, which were long steel tubes. They used them to suck 
more fragments from the crewmen and planes. But there were still a few wounded 
Americans, though, and some of the bombers were in bad repair. Over France, though, 
German fighters came up again, made everything and everybody as good as new. 

When the bombers got back to their base, the steel cylinders were taken from the racks 
and shipped back to the United States of America, where factories were operating night 
and day, dismantling the cylinders, separating the dangerous contents into minerals. 
Touchingly, it was mainly women who did this work. The minerals were then shipped to 
specialists in remote areas. It was their business to put them into the ground., to hide 
them cleverly, so they would never hurt anybody ever again. 

The American fliers turned in their uniforms, became high school kids. And Hitler 
turned into a baby, Billy Pilgrim supposed. That wasn't in the movie. Billy was 
extrapolating. Everybody turned into a baby, and all humanity, without exception, 
conspired biologically to produce two perfect people named Adam and Eve, he supposed. 

Billy saw the war movies backwards then forwards-and then it was time to go out into 
his backyard to meet the flying saucer. Out he went, his blue and ivory feet crushing the 
wet salad of the lawn. He stopped, took a swig, of the dead champagne. It was like 7-Up. 
He would not raise his eyes to the sky, though he knew there was a flying saucer from 
Tralfamadore up there. He would see it soon enough, inside and out, and he would see, 
too, where it came from soon enough-soon enough. 

Overhead he heard the cry of what might have been a melodious owl, but it wasn’t a 
melodious owl. It was a flying saucer from Tralfamadore, navigating in both space and 
time, therefore seeming to Billy Pilgrim to have come from nowhere all at once. 
Somewhere a big dog barked. 

The saucer was one hundred feet in diameter, with portholes around its rim. The light 
from the portholes was a pulsing purple. The only noise it made was the owl song. It ca¬ 
me down to hover over Billy, and to enclose him in a cylinder of pulsing in purple light. 
Now there was the sound of a seeming kiss as an airtight hatch in the bottom of the 
saucer was opened. Down snaked a ladder that was outlined in pretty lights like a Ferris 
wheel. 

Billy's will was paralyzed by a zap gun aimed at him from one of the portholes. It 
became imperative that he take hold of the bottom rung of the sinuous ladder, which he 
did. The rung was electrified, so that Billy's hands locked onto it hard. He was hauled 
into the airlock, and machinery closed the bottom door. Only then did the ladder, wound 
onto a reel in the airlock, let him go. Only then did Billy's brain start working again. 

There were two peepholes inside the airlock-with yellow eyes pressed to them. There 
was a speaker on the wall. The Tralfamadorians had no voice boxes. They communicated 
telepathicary. They were able to talk to Billy by means of a computer and a sort of 
electric organ which made every Earthling speech sound. 

'Welcome aboard, Mr. Pilgrim,' said the loudspeaker. 'Any questions?' 

Billy licked his lips, thought a while, inquired at last: 'Why me? ' 



That is a very Earthling question to ask, Mr. Pilgrim. Why you? Why us for that 
matter? Why anything? Because this moment simply is. Have you ever seen bugs 
trapped in amber?' 

'Yes.' Billy in fact, had a paperweight in his office which was a blob of polished amber 
with three ladybugs embedded in it. 

'Well, here we are, Mr. Pilgrim, trapped in the amber of this moment. There is no why.' 

They introduced an anesthetic into Billy's atmosphere now, put him to sleep. They 
carded him to a cabin where he was strapped to a yellow Barca-Lounger which they had 
stolen from a Sears & Roebuck warehouse. The hold of the saucer was crammed with 
other stolen merchandise, which would be used to furnish Billy's artificial habitat in a zoo 
on Tralfamadore. 

The terrific acceleration of the saucer as it left Earth twisted Billy's slumbering body, 
distorted his face, dislodged him m time, sent him back to the war. 

When he regained consciousness, he wasn't on the flying saucer. He was in a boxcar 
crossing Germany again. 

Some people were rising from the floor of the car, and others were lying down. Billy 
planned to He down, too. It would be lovely to sleep. It was black in the car, and black 
outside the car, which seemed to be about two miles an hour. The car never seemed to go 
any faster than that. It was a long time between clicks, between joints in the track. There 
would be a click, and then a year would go by, and then there would be another click 

The train often stopped to let really important trains bawl and hurtle by. Another thing 
it did was stop on sidings near prisons, leaving a few cars there. It was creeping across all 
of Germany, growing shorter all the time. 

And Billy let himself down oh so gradually now, hanging onto the diagonal cross¬ 
brace in the comer in order to make himself seem nearly weightless to those he was 
joining on the floor. He knew it was important that he made himself nearly ghostlike 
when lying down. He had forgotten why, but a reminder soon came. 

'Pilgrim,' said a person he was about to nestle with, 'is that you?' 

Billy didn’t say anything, but nestled very politely, closed his eyes. 

'God damn if said the person. 'That is you, isn’t it?' He sat up and explored Billy rudely 
with his hands. 'It’s you, all right. Get the hell out of here.' 

Now Billy sat up, too-wretched, close to tears. 

'Get out of here! I want to sleep!' 

'Shut up,' said somebody else. 

’I'll shut up when Pilgrim gets away from here.’ 

So Billy stood up again, clung to the cross-brace. 'Where can I sleep?' he asked 
quietly. 

'Not with me.’ 

'Not with me, you son of a bitch,’ said somebody else. 'You yell. You kick.' 

'I do?’ 

"You're God damn right you do. And whimper.’ 

'I do?’ 

'Keep the hell away from here., Pilgrim.’ 



And now there was an acrimonious madrigal, with parts sung in all quarters of the car. 
Nearly everybody seemingly, had an atrocity story of something Billy Pilgrim had done 
to him in his sleep. Everybody told Billy Pilgrim to keep the hell away. 

So Billy Pilgrim had to sleep standing up, or not sleep at all. And food had stopped 
coming in through the ventilators, and the days and nights were colder all the time. 

On the eighth day, the forty-year-old hobo said to Billy, ’This ain't bad. I can be 
comfortable anywhere.' 

'You can?' said Billy. 

On the ninth day, the hobo died. So it goes. His last words were, 'You think this is bad? 
This ain't bad.' 

There was something about death and the ninth day. There was a death on the ninth 
day in the car ahead of Billy's too. Roland Weary died-of gangrene that had started in his 
mangled feet. So it goes. 

Weary, in his nearly continuous delirium, told again and again of the Three 
Musketeers, acknowledged that he was dying, gave many messages to be delivered to his 
family in Pittsburgh. Above all, he wanted to be avenged, so he said again and again the 
name of the person who had killed him. Everyone on the car learned the lesson well. 

'Who killed me?" he would ask. 

And everybody knew the answer., which was this: "Billy Pilgrim.’ 

Listen- on the tenth night the peg was pulled out of the hasp on Billy's boxcar door, 
and the door was opened. Billy Pilgrim was lying at an angle on the corner-brace, self- 
crucified, holding himself there with a blue and ivory claw hooked over the- sill of the 
ventilator. Billy coughed -when the door was opened, and when he coughed he shit thin 
gruel. This was in accordance with the Third Law of Motion according to Sir Isaac 
Newton. This law tells us that for every action there is a reaction which is equal and 
opposite in direction. 

This can be useful in rocketry. 

The train had arrived on a siding by a prison which was originally constructed as an 
extermination camp for Russian prisoners of war. 

The guards peeked inside Billy's car owlishly, cooed cahningly. They had never dealt 
with Americans before, but they surely understood this general sort of freight. They knew 
that it was essentially a liquid which could be induced to flow slowly toward cooing and 
light. It was nighttime. 

The only light outside came from a single bulb which hung from a pole-high and far 
away. All was quiet outside, except for the guards, who cooed like doves. And the liquid 
began to flow. Gobs of it built up in the doorway, plopped to the ground. 


Billy was the next-to-last human being to reach the door. The hobo was the last. The 
hobo could not flow, could not plop. He wasn't liquid any more. He was stone. So it goes. 



Billy didn’t, want to drop from the car to the ground. He sincerely believed that he 
would shatter like glass. So the guards helped him down, cooing still. They set him down 
facing the train. It was such a dinky train now. 

There was a locomotive, a tender, and three little boxcars. The last boxcar was the 
railroad guards' heaven on wheels. Again-in that heaven on wheels-the table was set. 
Dinner was served. 

At the base of the pole from which the light bulb hung were three seeming haystacks. 
The Americans were wheedled and teased over to those three stacks, which weren't hay 
after all. They were overcoats taken from prisoners who were dead. So it goes. 

It was the guards' firmly expressed wish that every American without an overcoat 
should take one. The coats were cemented together with ice, so the guards used their 
bayonets as ice picks, pricking free collars and hems and sleeves and so on, then peeling 
off coats and handing them out at random. The coats were stiff and dome-shaped, having 
conformed to their piles. 

The coat that Billy Pilgrim got had been crumpled and frozen in such a way, and was 
so small, that it appeared to be not a coat but a sort of large black, three-cornered hat. 
There were gummy stains on it, too, like crankcase drainings or old strawberry jam. 

There seemed to be a dead, furry animal frozen to it. The animal was in fact the coat's fur 
collar. 

Billy glanced dully at the coats of his neighbors. Their coats all had brass buttons or 
tinsel or piping or numbers or stripes or eagles or moons or stars dangling from them. 
They were soldiers' coats. Billy was the only one who had a coat from a dead civilian. So 
it goes. 

And Billy and the rest were encouraged to shuffle around their dinky train and into the 
prison camp. There wasn't anything warm or lively to attract them-merely long, low, 
narrow sheds by the thousands, with no lights inside. 

Somewhere a dog barked. With the help of fear and echoes and winter silences, that 
dog had a voice like a big bronze gong. 

Billy and the rest were wooed through gate after gate, and Billy saw his first Russian. 
The man was all alone in the night-a ragbag with a round, flat face that glowed like a 
radium dial. 

Billy passed within a yard of him. There was barbed wire between them. The Russian 
did not wave or speak, but he looked directly into Billy's soul with sweet hopefulness, as 
though Billy might have good news for him-news he might be too stupid to understand, 
but good news all the same. 

Billy blacked out as he walked through gate after gate. He came to what he thought 
might be a building on Tralfamadore. It was shrilly lit and lined with white tiles. It was 
on Earth, though. It was a delousing station through which all new prisoners had to pass. 

Billy did as he was told, took off his clothes. That was the first thing they told him to 
do on Tralfamadore, too. 

A German measured Billy's upper right arm with his thumb and forefinger, asked a 
companion what sort of an army would send a weakling like that to the front. They 



looked at the other American bodies now, pointed out a lot more that were nearly as bad 
as Billy's. 

One of the best bodies belonged to the oldest American by far, a high school teacher 
from Indianapolis. His name was Edgar Derby. He hadn’t been in Billy's boxcar. He’d 
been in Roland Weary's car, had cradled Weary's head while he died. So it goes. Derby 
was forty-four years old. He was so old he had a son who was a marine in the Pacific 
theater of war. 

Derby had pulled political wires to get into the army at his age. The subject he had 
taught in Indianapolis was Contemporary Problems in Western Civilization. He also 
coached the tennis team, and took very good care of his body. 

Derby's son would survive the war. Derby wouldn’t. That good body of his would be 
filled with holes by a firing squad in Dresden in sixty-eight days. So it goes. 

The worst American body wasn’t Billy's. The worst body belonged to a car thief from 
Cicero, Illinois. Ms name was Paul Lazzaro. He was tiny, and not only were his bones 
and teeth rotten, but his skin was disgusting. Lazzaro was polka-dotted all over with 
dime-sized scars. He had had many plagues of boils. 

Lazzaro, too, had been on Roland Weary's boxcar, and had given his word of honor to 
Weary that he would find some way to make Billy Pilgrim pay for Weary's death. He was 
looking around now, wondering which naked human being was Billy. 

The naked Americans took their places under many showerheads along a white-tiled 
wall. There were no faucets they could control. They could only wait for whatever was 
coming. Their penises were shriveled and their balls were retracted. Reproduction was 
not the main business of the evening. 

An unseen hand turned a master valve. Out of the showerheads gushed scalding rain. 
The rain was a blow-torch that did not warm. It jazzed and jangled Billy's skin without 
thawing the ice in the marrow of his long bones. 

The Americans' clothes were meanwhile passing through poison gas. Body lice and 
bacteria and fleas were dying by the billions. So it goes. 

And Billy zoomed back in time to his infancy. He was a baby who had just been 
bathed by his mother. Now his mother wrapped him in a towel, carried him into a rosy 
room that was filled with sunshine. She unwrapped him, laid him on the tickling towel, 
powdered him between his legs, joked with him, patted his little jelly belly. Her palm on 
his little jelly belly made potching sounds. 

Billy gurgled and cooed. 

And then Billy was a middle-aged optometrist again, playing hacker's golf this time- 
on a blazing summer Sunday morning. Billy never went to church any more. He was 
hacking with three other optometrists. Billy was on the green in seven strokes, and it was 
his turn to putt. 

It was an eight-foot putt and he made it. He bent over to take the ball out of the cup, 
and the sun went behind a cloud. Billy was momentarily dizzy. When he recovered, he 
wasn't on the golf course any more. He was strapped to a yellow contour chair in a white 
chamber aboard a flying saucer, which was bound for Tralfamadore. 



’Where am I?' said Billy Pilgrim. 

'Trapped in another blob of amber, Mr. Pilgrim. We are where we have to be just now- 
three hundred million miles from Earth, bound for a time warp which will get us to 
Tralfamadore in hours rather than centuries.' 

'How-how did I get here?' 

'It would take another Earthling to explain it to you. Earthlings are the great explainers, 
explaining why this event is structured as it is, telling how other events may be achieved 
or avoided. I am a Tralfamadorian, seeing all time as you might see a stretch of Rocky 
Mountains. All time is all time. It does not change. It does not lend itself to warnings or 
explanations. It simply is. Take it moment by moment, and you will find that we are all, 
as I've said before, bugs in amber.’ 
Now he was indoors., next to an iron cookstove that was glowing cherry red. Dozens 
of teapots were boiling there. Some of them had whistles. And there was a witches' 
cauldron full of golden soup. The soup was thick. Primeval bubbles surfaced it with 
lethargical majesty as Billy Pilgrim stared. 

There were long tables set for a banquet. At each place was a bowl made from a can 
that had once contained powdered milk. A smaller can was a cup. A taller, more slender 
can was a tumbler. Each tumbler was filled with warm milk. 

At each place was a safety razor, a washcloth, a package of razor blades, a chocolate 
bar, two cigars, a bar of soap,, ten cigarettes, a book of matches, a pencil and a candle. 

Only the candles and the soap were of German origin. They had a ghostly, opalescent 
similarity. The British had no way of knowing it, but the candles and the soap were made 
from the fat of rendered Jews and Gypsies and fairies and communists, and other enemies 
of the State. 

So it goes. 

The banquet hall was illuminated by candlelight. There were heaps of fresh baked 
white bread on the tables, gobs of butter, pots of marmalade. There were platters of sliced 
beef from cans. Soup and scrambled eggs and hot marmalade pie were yet to come. 

And, at the far end of the shed, Billy saw pink arches with azure draperies hanging 
between them, and an enonnous clock, and two golden thrones, and a bucket and a mop. 
It was in this setting that the evening's entertainment would take place, a musical version 
of Cinderella, the most popular story ever told. 

Billy Pilgrim was on fire, having stood too close to the glowing stove. The hem of his 
little coat was burning. It was a quiet, patient sort of fire-like the burning of punk. 

Billy wondered ff there was a telephone somewhere. He wanted to call his mother, to 
tell her he was alive and well. 

There was silence now, as the Englishmen looked in astonishment at the frowsy 
creatures they had so lustily waltzed inside. One of the Englishmen saw that Billy was on 
fire. 'You're on fire lad!' he said, and he got Billy away from the stove and beat out the 
sparks with his hands. 

When Billy made no comment on this, the Englishman asked him, 'Can you talk? Can 
you hear?' 



Billy nodded. 

The Englishman touched him exploratorily here and there, filled with pity. ’My God- 
what have they done to you, lad? This isn't a man. It’s a broken kite.’ 

’Are you really an American?' said the Englishman. 


'You sound to me as though you don’t believe in free will,' said Billy Pilgrim. 

'If I hadn’t spent so much time studying Earthlings,' said the Tralfamadorian, 'I 
wouldn’t have any idea what was meant by "free will." I've visited thirty-one inhabited 
plants in the universe, and I have studied reports on one hundred more. Only on Earth is 
there any talk of free will.' 

Five 

Billy Pilgrim says that the Universe does not look like a lot of bright little dots to the 
creatures from Tralfamadore. The creatures can see where each star has been and where it 
is going, so that the heavens are filled with rarefied, luminous spaghetti. And 
Tralfamadorians don't see human beings as two-legged creatures, either. They see them 
as great millipedes with babies' legs at one end and old people's legs at the other,' says 
Billy Pilgrim. 

Billy asked for something to read on the trip to Tralfamadore. His captors had five 
million Earthling books on microfilm, but no way to project them in Billy's cabin. They 
had only one actual book in English, which would be placed in a Tralfamadorian 
museum. It was Valley of the Dolls, by Jacqueline Susann. 

Billy read it, thought it was pretty good in spots. The people in it certainly had their 
ups-and-downs, ups-and-downs. But Billy didn’t want to read about the same ups-and- 
downs over and over again. He asked if there wasn't, please, some other reading matters 
around. 

'Only Tralfamadorian novels, which I’m afraid you couldn’t begin to understand,' said 
the speaker on the wall. 

'Let me look at one anyway.’ 

So they sent him in several. They were little things. A dozen of them might have had 
the bulk of Valley of the Dolls-with all its ups-and-downs, up-and-downs. 

Billy couldn’t read Tralfamadorian, of course, but he could at least see how the books 
were laid out-in brief clumps of symbols separated by stars. Billy commented that the 
clumps might be telegrams. 

'Exactly,' said the voice. 



’They are telegrams?' 

'There are no telegrams on Tralfamadore. But you're right: each clump of-symbols is a 
brief, urgent message describing a situation, a scene., We Tralfamadorians read them all 
at once, not one after the other. There isn't any particular relationship between all the 
messages, except that the author has chosen them carefully, so that, when seen all at 
once, they produce an image of life that is beautiful and surprising and deep. There is no 
beginning, no middle, no end, no suspense, no moral, no causes, no effects. What we 
love in our books are the depths of many marvelous moments seen all at one time.’ 

Moments after that, the saucer entered a time warp, and Billy was flung back into his 
childhood. He was twelve years old, quaking as he stood with his mother and father on 
Bright Angel Point, at the rim of Grand Canyon. The little human family was staring at 
the floor of the canyon, one mile straight down. 

'Well,' said Billy's father, manfully kicking a pebble into space, 'there it is.’ They had 
come to this famous place by automobile. They had had several blowouts on the way. 

'It was worth the trip,' said Billy's mother raptly. 'Oh, God was it ever worth it.’ 

Billy hated the canyon. He was sure that he was going to fall in. His mother touched 
him, and he wet his pants. 

There were other tourists looking down into the canyon, too, and a ranger was there to 
answer questions. A Frenchman who had come all the way from France asked the ranger 
in broken English ff many people committed suicide by jumping in. 

'Yes, sir,' said the ranger. 'About three folks a year.' So it goes. 

And Billy took a very short trip through time,, made a peewee jump of only ten days, 
so he was still twelve, still touring the West with his family. Now they were down in 
Carlsbad Caverns, and Billy was praying to God to get him out of there before the ceiling 
fell in. 

A ranger was explaining that the Caverns had been discovered by a cowboy who saw a 
huge cloud of bats come out of a hole in the ground. And then he said that he was going 
to mm out all the lights., and that it would probably be the first time in the lives of most 
people there that they had ever been in darkness that was total. 

Out went the lights. Billy didn’t even know whether he was still alive or not. And then 
something ghostly floated in air to his left. It had numbers on it. His father had taken out 
his Pocket watch. The watch had a radium dial. 

Billy went from total dark to total light, found himself back in the war, back in the 
delousing station again. The shower was over. An unseen hand had turned the water off. 

When Billy got his clothes back, they weren’t any cleaner, but all the little animals that 
had been living in them were dead. So it goes. And his new overcoat was thawed out and 
limp now. It was much too small for Billy. It had a fur collar and a g of crimson silk, and 
had apparently been made for an impresario about as big as an organ-grinder's monkey. It 
was full of bullet holes. 

Billy Pilgrim dressed himself. He put on the little overcoat, too. It split up the back, 
and, at the shoulders, the sleeves came entirely free. So the coat became a fur-collared 
vest. It was meant to flare at its owners waist, but the flaring took place at Billy's armpits. 



'Me Germans found him to be one of the most screamingly funny things they had seen in 
all of the Second World War. They laughed and laughed. 

And the Germans told everybody else to form in ranks of five, with Billy as their pivot. 
Then out of doors went the parade, and through gate after gate again. 'Mere were more 
starving Russians with faces like radium dials. The Americans were livelier than before. 
The jazzing with hot water had cheered them up. And they came to a shed where a 
corporal with only one arm and one eye wrote the name and serial number of each 
prisoner in a big, red ledger. Everybody was legally alive now. Before they got their 
names and numbers in that book, they were missing in action and probably dead. 

So it goes. 

As the Americans were waiting to move on, an altercation broke out in their rear-most 
rank. An American had muttered something which a guard did not like. The guard knew 
English, and he hauled the American out of ranks knocked him down. 

The American was astonished. He stood up shakily, spitting blood. He'd had two teeth 
knocked out. He had meant no harm by what he’d said, evidently, had no idea that the 
guard would hear and understand. 

'Why me?’ he asked the guard. 

The guard shoved him back into ra nk s. 'Vy you? Vy anybody?' he said. 

When Billy Pilgrim’s name was inscribed in the ledger of the prison camp, he was 
given a number., too, and an iron dogtag in which that number was stamped. A slave 
laborer from Poland had done the stamping. He was dead now. So it goes. 

Billy was told to hang the tag' around his neck along with his American dogtags, which 
he did. The tag was like a salt cracker, perforated down its middle so that a strong man 
could snap it in two with his bare hands. In case Billy died, which he didn't, half the tag 
would mark his body and half would mark his grave. 

After poor Edgar Derby, the high school teacher, was shot in Dresden later on, a doctor 
pronounced him dead and snapped his dogtag in two. So it goes. 

Properly enrolled and tagged, the Americans were led through gate after gate again. In 
two days' time now their families would learn from the International Red Cross that they 
were alive. 

Next to Billy was little Paul Lazzaro, who had promised to avenge Roland Weary. 
Lazzaro wasn't thinking about vengeance. He was thinking about his terrible bellyache. 
His stomach had shrunk to the size of a walnut. That dry, shriveled pouch was as sore as 
a boil. 

Next to Lazzaro was poor, doomed old Edgar Derby, with his American and German 
dogs displayed like a necklace, on the outside of his clothes. He had expected to become 
a captain, a company commander, because of his wisdom and age. Now here he was on 
the Czechoslovakian border at midnight. 

'Halt,' said a guard. 

The Americans halted. They stood there quietly in the cold. The sheds they were 
among were outwardly like thousands of other sheds they had passed. There was this 



difference, though: the sheds had tin chimneys, and out of the chimneys whirled 
constellations of sparks. 

A guard knocked on a door. 

The door was flung open from inside. Light leaped out through the door, escaped from 
prison at 186,000 miles per second. Out marched fifty middle-aged Englishmen. They 
were singing "Hail, Hail, the Gang's All Here’ from the Pirates of Penzance’. 

These lusty, ruddy vocalists were among the first English-speaking prisoners to be 
taken in the Second World War. Now they were singing to nearly the last. They had not 
seen a woman or a child for four years or more. They hadn't seen any birds, either. Not 
even sparrows would come into the camp. 

The Englishmen were officers. Each of them had attempted to escape from another 
prison at least once. Now they were here, dead-center in a sea of dying Russians. 

They could tunnel all they pleased. They would inevitably surface within a rectangle of 
barbed wire, would find themselves greeted listlessly by dying Russians who spoke no 
English, who had no food or useful information or escape plans of their own. They could 
scheme all they pleased to hide aboard a vehicle or steal one, but no vehicle ever came 
into their compound. They could feign illness, if they liked, but that wouldn’t earn them a 
trip anywhere, either. The only hospital in the camp was a six-bed affair in the British 
compound itself. 

The Englishmen were clean and enthusiastic and decent and strong. They sang 
boomingly well. They had been singing together every night for years. 

The Englishmen had also been lifting weights and chinning themselves for years. Their 
bellies were like washboards. The muscles of their calves and upper arms were like 
cannonballs. They were all masters of checkers and chess and bridge and cribbage and 
dominoes and anagrams and charades and Ping-Pong and billiards, as well. 

They were among the wealthiest people in Europe, in terms of food. A clerical error 
early in the war, when food was still getting through to prisoners, had caused the Red 
Cross to ship them five hundred parcels every month instead of fifty. The Englishmen 
had hoarded these so cunningly that now, as the war was ending, they had three tons of 
sugar, one ton of coffee, eleven hundred pounds of chocolate, seven hundred pounds of 
tobacco, seventeen hundred pounds of tea, two tons of flour, one ton of canned beef, 
twelve hundred pounds of canned butter, sixteen hundred pounds of canned cheese, eight 
hundred pounds of powdered milk., and two tons of orange marmalade. 

They kept all this in a room without windows. They had ratproofed it by lining it with 
flattened tin cans. 



And he leaned down to press his cold lips once more to my throat.

They were adored by the Gennans, who thought they were exactly what the 
Englishmen ought to be. They made war look stylish and reasonable, and fun. So the 
Germans let them have four sheds, though one shed would have held them all. And, in 
exchange for coffee or chocolate or tobacco, the Germans gave them paint and lumber 
and nails and cloth for fixing things up. 

The Englishmen had known for twelve hours that American guests were on their way. 
They had never had guests before, and they went to work like darling elves, sweeping, 



mopping, cooking, baking-making mattresses of straw and burlap bags, setting tables, 
putting party favors at each place. 

Now they were singing their welcome to their guests in the winter night. Their clothes 
were aromatic with the feast they had been preparing. They were dressed half for battle, 
half for tennis or croquet. They were so elated by their own hospitality, and by all the 
goodies waiting inside, that they did not take a good look at their guests while they sang. 
And they imagined that they were singing to fellow officers fresh from the fray. 

They wrestled the Americans toward the shed door affectionately, filling the night with 
manly blather and brotherly rodomontades. They called them 'Yank,' told them 'Good 
show,’ promised them that 'Jerry was on the run,' and so on. 

Billy Pilgrim wondered dimly who Jerry was. 


'Yes,' said Billy. 

'And your rank?’ 

'Private.' 

'What became of your boots, lad?’ 

'I don’t remember.’ 

'Is that coat a joke?' 

’Sir?’ 

'Where did you get such a thing?' 

Billy had to think hard about that. 'They gave it to me,' he said at last. 

'Jerry gave it to you?' 

'Who? ’ 

'The Germans gave it to you?' 

'Yes.' 

Billy didn’t like the questions. They were fatiguing. 

'Ohhhh-Yank, Yank, Yank,' said the Englishman, 'that coat was an insult, 

’Sir? ’ 

'It was a deliberate attempt to humiliate you. You mustn't let Jerry do things like that.’ 

Billy Pilgrim swooned. 

Billy came to on a chair facing the stage. He I had somehow eaten, and now he was 
watching Cinderella. Some part of him had evidently been enjoying the performance for 
quite a while. Billy was laughing hard. 

The women in the play were really men, of course. The clock had just struck midnight 
and Cinderella was lamenting 

'Goodness me, the clock has struck- 
Alackaday, and fuck my luck.’ 

Billy found the couplet so comical that he not only laughed-he shrieked. He went on 
shrieking until he was carried out of the shed and into another, where the hospital was. It 
was a six-bed hospital. There weren’t any other patients in there. 

Billy was put to bed and tied down, and given a shot of morphine. Another American 
volunteered to watch over him. This volunteer was Edgar Derby, the high school teacher 
who would be shot to death in Dresden. So it goes. 

Derby sat on a three-legged stool. He was given a book to read. The book was The Red 
Badge of Courage, by Stephen Crane. Derby had read it before. Now he read it again 
while Billy Pilgrim entered a morphine paradise. 

Under morphine, Billy had a dream of giraffes in a garden. The giraffes were following 
gravel paths, were pausing to munch sugar pears from treetops. Billy was a giraffe, too. 



He ate a pear. It was a hard one. It fought back against his grinding teeth. It snapped in 
juicy protest. 

The giraffes accepted Billy as one of their own, as a harmless creature as 
preposterously specialized as themselves. Two approached him from opposite sides, 
leaned against him. They had long, muscular upper lips which they could shape like the 
bells of bugles. They kissed him with these. They were female giraffes-cream and lemon 
yellow. They had horns like doorknobs. The knobs were covered with velvet. 

Why? 

Night came to the garden of the giraffes, and Billy Pilgrim slept without dreaming for a 
while, and then he traveled in time. He woke up with his head under a blanket in a ward 
for nonviolent mental patients in a veterans' hospital near Lake Placid, New York. It was 
springtime in 1948, three years after the end of the war. 

Billy uncovered his head. The windows of the ward were open. Birds were twittering 
outside. 'Poo-tee-weet?' one asked him. The sun was high. There were twenty-nine other 
patients assigned to the ward, but they were all outdoors now, enjoying the day. They 
were free to come and go as they pleased, to go home, even., if they liked-and so was 
Billy Pilgrim. They had come here voluntarily, alarmed by the outside world. 

Billy had committed himself in the middle of his final year at the Ilium School of 
Optometry. Nobody else suspected that he was going crazy. Everybody else thought he 
looked fine and was acting fine. Now he was in the hospital. The doctors agreed: He was 
going crazy. 

They didn’t think it had anything to do with the war. They were sure Billy was going to 
pieces because his father had thrown him into the deep end of the Y.M.C.A. swimming 
pool when he was a little boy, and had then taken him to the rim of the Grand Canyon. 

The man assigned to the bed next to Billy's was a fonner infantry captain named Eliot 
Rosewater. Rosewater was sick and tired of being drunk all the time. 

It was Rosewater who introduced Billy to science fiction, and in particular to the 
writings of Kilgore Trout. Rosewater had a tremendous collection of science-fiction 
paperbacks under his bed. He had brought them to the hospital in a steamer trunk. Those 
beloved, frumpish books gave off a smell that penneated the ward-like flannel pajamas 
that hadn’t been changed for a month, or like Irish stew. 

Kilgore Trout became Billy's favorite living author, and science fiction became the 
only sort of tales he could read. 

Rosewater was twice as smart as Billy., but he and Billy were dealing with similar 
crises in similar ways. They had both found life meaningless, partly because of what they 
had seen in war. Rosewater., for instance, had shot a fourteen-year-old fireman, 
mistaking him for a German soldier. So it goes. And Billy had seen the greatest massacre 
in European history, which was the firebombing of Dresden. So it goes. 

So they were trying to re-invent themselves and their universe. Science fiction was a 
big help. 

Rosewater said an interesting thing to Billy one time about a book that wasn’t science 
fiction. He said that everything there was to know about life was in The Brothers 
Karamazov, by Feodor Dostoevsky. 'But that isn't enough any more.' said Rosewater. 



Another time Billy heard Rosewater say to a psychiatrist, 'I think you guys are going to 
have to come up with a lot of wonderful new lies, or people just aren’t going to want to 
go on living.’ 

There was a still life on Billy's bedside table-two pills, an ashtray with three lipstick- 
stained cigarettes in it, one cigarette Still burning, and a glass of water. The water was 
dead. So it goes. Air was trying to get out of that dead water. Bubbles were clinging to 
the walls of the glass, too weak to climb out. 

The cigarettes belonged to Billy's chain-smoking mother. She had sought the ladies’ 
room, which was off the ward for WACS and WAVES and SPARS and WAFS who had 
gone bananas. She would be back at any moment now. 

Billy covered his head with his blanket again. He always covered his head when his 
mother came to see him in the mental ward-always got much sicker until she went away. 
It wasn’t that she was ugly, or had bad breath or a bad personality. She was a perfectly 
nice, standard-issue, brown-haired, white woman with a high-school education. 

She upset Billy simply by being his mother. She made him feel embarrassed and 
ungrateful and weak because she had gone to so much trouble to give him life, and to 
keep that life going, and Billy didn’t really like life at all. 


Billy heard Eliot Rosewater come in and lie down. Rosewater's bedsprings talked a lot 
about that. Rosewater was a big man, but not very powerful. He looked as though he 
might be made out of nose putty. 

And then Billy's mother came back from the ladies' room, sat down on a chair between 
Billy's and Rosewater's bed. Rosewater greeted her with melodious wannth, asked how 
she was today. He seemed delighted to hear that she was fine. He was experimenting with 
being ardently sympathetic with everybody he met. He thought that might make the 
world a slightly more pleasant place to live in. He called Billy's mother 'dear.' He was 
experimenting with calling everybody 'dear.' 

Some day' she promised Rosewater., "I'm going to come in here, and Billy is going to 
uncover his head, and do you know what he's going to say?' 

'What's he going to say, dear?' 

'He's going to say, "Hello, Mom," and he's going to smile. He's going to say, "Gee, it's 
good to see you, Mom. How have you been?"' 

'Today could -be the day.' 

'Every night I pray.' 

'That's a good thing to do.’ 

'People would be surprised ff they knew how much in this world was due to prayers.' 

'You never said a truer word, dear.’ 

'Does your mother come to see you often?' 

'My mother is dead,' said Rosewater. So it goes. 

'I'm sorry.’ 

'At least she had a happy life as long as it lasted.’ 

'That's a consolation, anyway.' 

'Yes.' 

'Billy's father is dead., you know, said Billy's mother. So it goes. 



’A boy needs a father.’ 

And on and on it went-that duet between the dumb, praying lady and the big, hollow 
man so full of loving echoes. 

'He was at the top of his class when this happened,’ said Billy's mother. 

'Maybe he. was working too hard.' said Rosewater. He held a book he wanted to read, 
but he was much too polite to read and talk, too, easy as it was to give Billy's mother 
satisfactory answers. The book was Maniacs in the Fourth Dimension, by Kilgore Trout. 
It was about people whose mental diseases couldn’t be treated because the causes of the 
diseases were all in the fourth dimension., and three-dimensional Earthling doctors 
couldn’t see those causes at all, or even imagine them. 

One thing Trout said that Rosewater liked very much was that there really were 
vampires and werewolves and goblins and angels and so on, but that they were in the 
fourth dimension. So was William Blake, Rosewater's favorite poet, according to Trout. 
So were heaven and hell. 

'He's engaged to a very rich girl,' said Billy's mother. 

'That’s good,' said Rosewater. 'Money can be a great comfort sometimes.’ 

'It really can.’ 

'Of course it can.’ 

'It isn’t much fun if you have to pinch every penny till it screams. 

'It's nice to have a little breathing room.’ 

'Her father owns the optometry school where Billy was going. He also owns six offices 
around our part of the state. He flies his own plane and has a summer place up on Lake 
George.’ 

'That's a beautiful lake.’ 

Billy fell asleep under his blanket. When he woke up again, he was tied to the bed in 
the hospital back in prison. He opened one eye, saw poor old Edgar Derby reading The 
Red Badge of Courage by candlelight. 

Billy closed that one eye saw in his memory of the future poor old Edgar Derby in 
front of a firing squad in the ruins of Dresden. There were only four men in that squad. 
Billy had heard that one man in each firing squad was customarily given a rifle loaded 
with blank cartridge. Billy didn't think there would be a bla nk cartridge issued in a squad 
that small, in a war that old. 

Now the head Englishman came into the hospital to check on Billy. He was an infantry 
colonel captured at Dunkirk. It was he who had given Billy morphine. There wasn’t a real 
doctor in the compound, so the doctoring was up to him. 'How's the patient?' he asked 
Derby. 

'Dead to the world.’ 

'But not actually dead.’ 

'No.' 

'How nice-to feel nothing, and still get full credit for being alive.’ 

Derby now came to lugubrious attention. 



'No, no-please-as you were. With only two men for each officer, and all the men sick, I 
think we can do without the usual pageantry between officers and men.’ 

Derby remained standing. 'You seem older than the rest,' said the colonel. 

Derby told him he was forty-five, which was two years older than the colonel. The 
colonel said that the other Americans had all shaved now, that Billy and Derby were the 
only two still with beards. And he said, 'You know we've had to imagine the war here, 
and we have imagined that it was being fought by aging men like ourselves. We had 
forgotten that wars were fought by babies. When I saw those freshly shaved faces, it was 
a shock "My God, my God-" I said to myself. "It's the Children’s Crusade."’ 

The colonel asked old Derby how he had been captured, and Derby told a tale of being 
in a clump of trees with about a hundred other frightened soldiers. The battle had been 
going on for five days. The hundred had been driven into the trees by tanks. 

Derby described the incredible artificial weather that Earthlings sometimes create for 
other Earthlings when they don't want those other Earthlings to inhabit Earth any more. 
Shells were bursting in the treetops with terrific bangs, he said, showering down knives 
and needles and razorblades. Little lumps of lead in copper jackets were crisscrossing the 
woods under the shellbursts, zipping along much faster than sound. 

A lot of people were being wounded or killed. So it goes. 

Then the shelling stopped, and a hidden German with a loudspeaker told the 
Americans to put their weapons down and come out of the woods with their hands on the 
top of their heads, or the shelling would start again. It wouldn’t stop until everybody in 
there was dead. 

So the Americans put their weapons down, and they came out of the woods with their 
hands on top of their heads, because they wanted to go on living, if they possibly could. 

Billy traveled in time back to the veterans’ hospital again. The blanket was over his 
head. It was quiet outside the blanket. "Is my mother gone?' said Billy. 

'Yes.' 

Billy peeked out from under his blanket. His fiancee was out there now, sitting on the 
visitor's chair. Her name was Valencia Merble. Valencia was the daughter of the owner of 
the Ilium School of Optometry. She was rich. She was as big as a house because she 
couldn’t stop eating. She was eating now. She was eating a Three Musketeers Candy Bar. 
She was wearing trifocal lenses in harlequin frames, and the frames were trimmed with 
rhinestones. The glitter of the rhinestones was answered by the glitter of the diamond in 
her engagement ring. The diamond was insured for eighteen hundred dollars. Billy had 
found that diamond in Germany. It was booty of war. 

Billy didn’t want to marry ugly Valencia. She was one of the symptoms of his disease. 
He knew he was going crazy, when he heard himself proposing marriage to her., when he 
begged her to take the diamond ring and be his companion for life. 

Billy said, 'Hello,' to her, and she asked him if he wanted some candy, and he said, 'No, 
thanks.' 


know why," I demanded. 



"Why?" he repeated warily. 

"Why you did it. Why didn't you just let the venom spread? By now I would be just like you." 

Edward's eyes seemed to turn flat black, and I remembered that this was something he'd never intended 
me to know. Alice must have been preoccupied by the things she'd learned about herself. . . or she'd been 
very careful with her thoughts around him — clearly, he'd had no idea that she'd filled me in on the 
mechanics of vampire conversions. He was surprised, and infuriated. His nostrils flared, his mouth looked 
as if it was chiseled from stone. 

He wasn't going to answer, that much was clear. 

"I'll be the first to admit that I have no experience with relationships," I said. "But it just seems logical. . . a 
man and woman have to be somewhat equal. . . as in, one of them can't always be swooping in and 
saving the other one. They have to save each other equally." 

He folded his arms on the side of my bed and rested his chin on his arms. His expression was smooth, 
the anger reined in. Evidently he'd decided he wasn't angry with me. I hoped I'd get a chance to warn 
Alice before he caught up with her. 

"You have saved me," he said quietiy. 

"I can't always be Lois Lane," I insisted. "I want to be Superman, too." 

"You don't know what you're asking." His voice was soft; he stared intentiy at the edge of the pillowcase. 
"I think I do." 

"Bella, you don 't know. I've had almost ninety years to think about this, and I'm still not sure." 
"Do you wish that Carlisle hadn't saved you?" 

"No, I don't wish that." He paused before continuing. "But my life was over. I wasn't giving anything up." 

"You are my life. You're the only thing it would hurt me to lose." I was getting better at this. It was easy 
to admit how much I needed him. 

He was very calm, though. Decided. 

She asked him how he was, and he said, 'Much better, thanks.’ She said that everybody 
at the Optometry School was sorry he was sick and hoped he would be well soon, and 
Billy said, 'When you see ’em, tell 'em, "Hello."’ 

She promised she would. 



She asked him if there was anything she could bring him from the outside, and he said, 
'No. I have just about everything I want.’ 

'What about books?' said Valencia. 

'I'm right next to one of the biggest private libraries in the world,' said Billy, meaning 
Eliot Rosewater's collection of science fiction. 

Rosewater was on the next bed, reading, and Billy drew him into the conversation, 
asked him what he was reading this time. 

So Rosewater told him. It was The Gospel from Outer Space, by Kilgore Trout. It was 
about a visitor from outer space, shaped very much like a Tralfamadorian by the way. 

The visitor from outer space made a serious study of Christianity, to leam, if he could, 
why Christians found it so easy to be cruel. He concluded that at least part of the trouble 
was slipshod storytelling in the New Testament. He supposed that the intent of the 
Gospels was to teach people, among other things, to be merciful, even to the lowest of the 
low. 

But the Gospels actually taught this: 

Before you kill somebody, make absolutely sure he isn't well connected. So it goes. 

The flaw in the Christ stories, said the visitor from outer space, was that Christ, who 
didn't look like much, was actually the Son of the Most Powerful Being in the Universe. 
Readers understood that, so, when they came to the crucifixion, they naturally thought, 
and Rosewater read out loud again: 

Oh, boy-they sure picked the wrong guy to lynch that time! 

And that thought had a brother: 'There are right people to lynch.' Who? People not well 
connected. So it goes. 

The visitor from outer space made a gift to Earth of a new Gospel. In it, Jesus really 
was a nobody, and a pain in the neck to a lot of people with better connections than he 
had. He still got to say all the lovely and puzzling things he said in the other Gospels. 

So the people amused themselves one day by nailing him to a cross and planting the 
cross in the ground. There couldn’t possibly be any repercussions, the lynchers thought. 
The reader would have to think that, too, since the new Gospel hammered home again 
and again what a nobody Jesus was. 

And then, just before the nobody died, the heavens opened up, and there was thunder 
and lightning. The voice of God came crashing down. He told the people that he was 
adopting the bum as his son giving him the full powers and privileges of The Son of the 
Creator of the Universe throughout all eternity. God said this From this moment on, He 
will punish horribly anybody who torments a bum who has no connections! 

Billy's fiancee had finished her Three Musketeers Candy Bar. Now she was eating a 
Milky Way. 

'Forget books,' said Rosewater, throwing that particular book under his bed. 'The hell 
with ’em.’ 

'That sounded like an interesting one,' said Valencia. 

Jesus-if Kilgore Trout could only write!' Rosewater exclaimed. He had a point: Kilgore 
Trout's unpopularity was deserved. His prose was frightful. Only his ideas were good. 



'I don't think Trout has ever been out of the country,' Rosewater went on. 'My God-he 
writes about Earthlings all the time, and they're all Americans. Practically nobody on is 
an American.’ 

'Where does he live?" Valencia asked. 

'Nobody knows,' Rosewater replied. 'I'm the only person who ever heard of him, as far 
as I can tell. No two books have the same publisher, and every time I write him in care of 
a publisher, the letter comes back because the publisher has failed.’ 

He changed the subject now, congratulated Valencia on her engagement ring. 

'Thank you,' she said, and held it out so Rosewater could get a close look. 'Billy got 
that diamond in the war.' 

'That's the attractive thing about war,' said Rosewater. Absolutely everybody gets a 
little something.’ 

With regard to the whereabouts of Kilgore Trout: he actually lived in Ilium, Billy's 
hometown, friendless and despised. Billy would meet him by and by. 

'Billy' said Valencia Merble. 

'Hm?' 

'You want to talk about our silver pattern? ' 

'Sure.' 

'I’ve got it narrowed down pretty much to either Royal Danish or Rambler Rose.’ 

'Rambler Rose,' said Billy. 

'It isn't something we should rush into,' she said. 'I mean whatever we decide on, that's 
what we’re going to have to live with the rest of our lives.’ 

Billy studied the pictures. 'Royal Danish.' he said at last. 

'Colonial Moonlight is nice, too.’ 

'Yes, it is,' said Billy Pilgrim. 

And Billy traveled in time to the zoo on Tralfamadore. He was forty-four years old, on 
display under a geodesic dome. He was reclining on the lounge chair which had been his 
cradle during his trip through space. He was naked. The Tralfamadorians were 
interested in his body-all of it. There were thousands of them outside, holding up their 
little hands so that their eyes could see him. Billy had been on Tralfamadore for six 
Earthling months now. He was used to the crowd. 

Escape was out of the question. The atmosphere outside the dome was cyanide, and 
Earth was 446,120,000,000,000,000 miles away. 

Billy was displayed there in the zoo in a simulated Earthling habitat. Most of the 
furnishings had been stolen from the Sears & Roebuck warehouse in Iowa City, Iowa. 
There was a color television set and a couch that could be converted into a bed. There 
were end tables with lamps and ashtrays on them by the couch. There was a home bar 
and two stools. There was a little pool table. There was wall-to-wall carpeting in federal 
gold, except in the kitchen and bathroom areas and over the iron manhole cover in the 
center of the floor. There were magazines arranged in a fan on the coffee table in front of 
the couch. 



There was a stereophonic phonograph. The phonograph worked. The television didn’t. 
There was a picture Of one cowboy g another one pasted to the television tube. So it 
goes. 

There were no wall in the dome, nor place for Billy to hide. The mint green bathroom 
fixtures were right out in the open. Billy got off his lounge chair now, went into the 
bathroom and took a leak. The crowd went wild. 

Billy brushed his teeth on Tralfamadore, put in his partial denture, and went into his 
kitchen. His bottled-gas range and his refrigerator and his dishwasher were mint green, 
too. There was a picture painted on the door of the refrigerator. The refrigerator had 
come that way. It was a picture of a Gay Nineties couple on a bicycle built for two. 

Billy looked at that picture now, tried to think something about the couple. Nothing 
came to him. There didn't seem to be anything to think about those two people. 

Billy ate a good breakfast from cans. He washed his cup and plate and knife and fork 
and spoon and saucepan, put them away. Then he did exercises he had learned in the 
Army-straddle jumps, deep knee bends, sit-ups and push-ups. Most Tralfamadorians had 
no way of knowing Bill's body and face were not beautiful. They supposed that he was a 
splendid specimen. This had a pleasant effect on Billy, who began to enjoy his body for 
the first time. 

He showered after his exercises and trimmed his toenails. He shaved and sprayed 
deodorant under his anns, while a zoo guide on a raised platform outside explained what 
Billy was doing-and why. The guide was lecturing telepathically, simply standing there, 
sending out thought waves to the crowd. On the platform with him was the little 
keyboard instrument with which he would relay questions to Billy from the crowd. 

Now the first question came-from the speaker on the television set: 'Are you happy here?’ 

'About as happy as I was on Earth,’ said Billy Pilgrim, which was true. 

There were fives sexes on Tralfamadore, each of them perfonning a step necessary in 
the creation of a new individual. They looked identical to Billy-because their sex 
differences were all in the fourth dimension. 

One of the biggest moral bombshells handed to Billy by the Tralfamadorians, 
incidentally, had to do with sex on Earth. They said their flying-saucer crews had 
identified no fewer than seven sexes on Earth, each essential to reproduction. Again: 
Billy couldn't possibly imagine what five of those seven sexes had to do with the making 
of a baby, since they were sexually active only in the fourth dimension. 

The Tralfamadorians tried to give Billy clues that would help him imagine sex in the 
invisible dimension. They told him that there could be no Earthling babies without male 
homosexuals. There could be babies without female homosexuals. There couldn’t be 
babies without women over sixty-five years old. There could be babies without men over 
sixty-five. There couldn’t be babies without other babies who had lived an hour or less 
after birth. And so on. 

It was gibberish to Billy. 



There was a lot that Billy said that was gibberish to the Tralfamadorians, too. They 
couldn’t imagine what time looked like to him. Billy had given up on explaining that. 

The guide outside had to explain as best he could. 

The guide invited the crowd to imagine that they were looking across a desert at a 
mountain range on a day that was twinkling bright and clear. They could look at a peak 
or a bird or a cloud, at a stone right in front of them, or even down into a canyon behind 
them. But among them was this poor Earthling, and his head was encased in a steel 
sphere which he could never take off. There was only one eyehole through which he 
could look, and welded to that eyehole were six feet of pipe. 

This was only the beginning of Billy's miseries in the metaphor. He was also strapped 
to a steel lattice which was bolted to a flatcar on rails, And there was no way he could 
turn his head or touch the pipe. The far end of the pipe rested on a bi-pod which was also 
bolted to the flatcar. All Billy could see was the dot at the end of the pipe. He didn’t 
know he was on a flatcar, didn’t even know there was anything peculiar about his 
situation. 

The flatcar sometimes crept, sometimes went extremely fast, often stopped-went 
uphill, downhill, around curves, along straightaways. Whatever poor Billy saw through 
the pipe, he had no choice but to say to himself, ’That's life.' 

Billy expected the Tralfamadorians to be baffled and alanned by all the wars and other 
forms of murder on Earth. He expected them to fear that the Earthling combination of 
ferocity and spectacular weaponry might eventually destroy part or maybe all of the 
innocent Universe. Science fiction had led him to expect that. 

But the subject of war never came up until Billy brought it up himself. Somebody in 
the zoo crowd asked him through the lecturer what the most valuable thing he had 
learned on Tralfamadore was so far, and Billy replied, 'How the inhabitants of a whole 
planet can live in peace I As you know, I am from a planet that has been engaged in 
senseless slaughter since the beginning of time. I myself have seen the bodies of 
schoolgirls who were boiled alive in a water tower by my own countrymen, who were 
proud of fighting pure evil at the time. ’ This was true. Billy saw the boiled bodies in 
Dresden. 'And I have lit my way in a prison at night with candles from the fat of human 
beings who were butchered by the brothers and fathers of those school girls who were 
boiled. Earthlings must be the terrors of the Universe! If other planets aren’t now in 
danger from Earth, they soon will be. So tell me the secret so I can take it back to Earth 
and save us all: How can a planet live at peace?' 

Billy felt that he had spoken soaringly. He was baffled when he saw the 
Tralfamadorians close their little hands on their eyes. He knew from past experience 
what this meant: He was being stupid. 

'Would-would you mind telling me,’ he said to the guide, much deflated, 'what was so 
stupid about that?' 

'We know how the Universe ends,' said the guide, 'and Earth has nothing to do with it, 
except that it gets wiped out, too.’ 

'How-how does the Universe end?' said Billy. 



’We blow it up, experimenting with new fuels for our flying saucers. A 
Tralfamadorian test pilot presses a starter button, and the whole Universe disappears.’ So 
it goes. 

"If You know this," said Billy, 'isn’t there some way you can prevent it? Can't you 
keep the pilot from pressing the button?' 

'He has always pressed it, and he always will. We always let him and we always will 
let him. The moment is structured that way.' 

'So,' said Billy gropingly, I suppose that the idea of, preventing war on Earth is stupid, 
too. ’ 

'Of course.’ 

'But you do have a peaceful planet here.' 

'Today we do. On other days we have wars as horrible as any you've ever seen or read 
about. There isn't anything we can do about them, so we simply don’t look at them. We 
ignore them. We spend eternity looking at pleasant moments-like today at the zoo. Isn't 
this a nice moment?' 

'Yes.' 

'That's one thing Earthlings might learn to do, if they tried hard enough: Ignore the 
awful times, and concentrate on the good ones.' 

'Urn,' said Billy Pilgrim. 

Shortly after he went to sleep that night, Billy traveled in time to another moment 
which was quite nice, his wedding night with the former Valencia Merble. He had been 
out of the veterans' hospital for six months. He was all well. He had graduated from the 
Ilium School of Optometry-third in his class of forty-seven. 

Now he was in bed with Valencia in a delightful studio apartment which was built on 
the end of a wharf on Cape Ann, Massachusetts. Across the water were the lights of 
Gloucester. Billy was on top of Valencia, making love to her. One result of this act 
would be the birth of Robert Pilgrim, who would become a problem in high school, but 
who would then straighten out as a member of the famous Green Berets. 

Valencia wasn't a time-traveler, but she did have a lively imagination. While Billy was 
making love to her, she imagined that she was a famous woman in history. She was being 
Queen Elizabeth the First of England, and Billy was supposedly Christopher Columbus. 

Billy made a noise like a small, rusty hinge. He had just emptied his seminal vesicles 
into Valencia, had contributed his share of the Green Beret According to the 
Tralfamadorians, of course, the Green Beret would have seven parents in all. 

Now he rolled off his huge wife, whose rapt expression did not change when he 
departed. He lay with the buttons of his spine along the edge of the mattress, folded his 
hands behind his head. He was rich now. He had been rewarded for marrying a girl 
nobody in his right mind would have married. His father-in-law had given him a new 
Buick Roadmaster, an all-electric home, and had made him manager of his most 
prosperous office, his Ilium office, where Billy could expect to make at least thirty 
thousand dollars a year. That was good. His father had been only a barber. 

As his mother said, "The Pilgrims are coming up in the world,’ 



The honeymoon was taking place in the bittersweet mysteries of Indian summer in 
New England. The lovers' apartment had one romantic wall which was all French doors. 
They opened onto a balcony and the oily harbor beyond. 

A green and orange dragger, black in the night, grumbled and drummed past their 
balcony, not thirty feet from their wedding bed. It was going to sea with only its running 
lights on. Its empty holds were resonant, made the song of the engines rich and loud. 

The wharf began to sing the same song, and then the honeymooners' headboard sang, too. 
And it continued to sing long after the dragger was gone. 

'Thank you,' said Valencia at last. The headboard was singing a mosquito song. 

'You're welcome.’ 

'It was nice.' 

'I'm glad.' 

Then she began to cry. 

'What's the matter?' 

'I'm so happy.' 

'Good.' 

'I never thought anybody would marry me.’ 

'Urn,' said Billy Pilgrim. 

I'm going to lose weight for you,' she said. 

'What?' 

'I'm going to go on a diet. I'm going to become beautiful for you.' 

'I like you just the way you are.’ 

'Do you really?' 

'Really,' said Billy Pilgrim. He had already seen a lot of their marriage, thanks to time- 
travel, knew that it was going to be at least bearable all the way. 

A great motor yacht named the Scheherezade now slid past the marriage bed. The 
song its engines sang was a very low organ note. All her lights were on. 

Two beautiful people, a young man and a young woman in evening clothes, were at the 
rail hi the stem, loving each other and their dreams and the wake. They were 
honeymooning, too. They were Lance Rumfoord., of Newport, Rhode Island, and his 
bride,, the former Cynthia Landry., who had been a childhood sweetheart of John F. 
Kennedy in Hyannis Port, Massachusetts. 

There was a slight coincidence here. Billy Pilgrim would later share a hospital room 
with Rumfoord’s uncle, Professor Bertram Copeland Rumfoord of Harvard, official 
Historian of the United States Air Force. 

When the beautiful people were past, Valencia questioned her funny-looking husband 
about war. It was a simple-minded thing for a female Earthling to do, to associate sex 
and glamor with war. 

'Do you ever think about the war?' she said, laying a hand on his thigh. 

'Sometimes,' said Billy Pilgrim. 

'I look at you sometimes,' said Valencia, 'and I get a funny feeling that you're full of 
secrets.' 



'I'm not,' said Billy. This was a lie, of course. He hadn't told anybody about all the 
time traveling he’d done, about Tralfamadore and so on. 

'You must have secrets about the war. Or, not secrets, I guess, but things you don't 
want to talk about.' 

'No.' 

'I'm proud you were a soldier. Do you know that?' 

’Good.’ 

'Was it awful?' 

'Sometimes.' A crazy thought now occurred to Billy. The truth of it startled him. It 
would make a good epitaph for Billy Pilgrim-and for me, too. 

'Would you talk about the war now, if I wanted you to?' said Valencia. In a tiny cavity 
in her great body she was assembling the materials for a Green Beret. 

'It would sound like a dream,', said Billy. 'Other people's dreams aren’t very interesting 
usually.’ 

'I heard you tell Father one time about a German firing squad.' She was referring to the 
execution of poor old Edgar Derby. 

'Urn.' 

'You had to bury him? ' 

'Yes.' 

Did he see you with your shovels before he was shot?' 

'Yes.' 

'Did he say anything?' 


EVERYTHING WAS BEAUTIFUL, AND NOTHING HURT 

'No.' 

'Was he scared?’ 

'They had him doped up. He was sort of glassy-eyed.’ 

And they pinned a target to him?' 

A piece of paper,' said Billy. He got out of bed, said, 'Excuse me,' went to the 
darkness of the bathroom to take a leak. He groped for the light, realized as he felt the 
rough wall that he had traveled back to 1944, to the prison hospital again. 

The candle in the hospital had gone out. Poor old Edgar Derby had fallen asleep on the 
cot next to Billy's. Billy was out of bed, groping along a wall, trying to find a way out 
because he had to take a leak so badly. 

He suddenly found a door, which opened, let him reel out into the prison night. Billy 
was loony with time-travel and morphine. He delivered himself to a barbed-wire fence 
which snagged him in a dozen places. Billy tried to back away from it but the barbs 
wouldn't let go. So Billy did a silly little dance with the fence, taking a step this way, 
then that way, then returning to the beginning again. 

A Russian, himself out in the night to take a leak, saw Billy dancing-from the other 
side of the fence. He came over to the curious scarecrow, tried to talk with it gently, 
asked it what country it was from. The scarecrow paid no attention, went on dancing. So 



the Russian undid the snags one b y one, and the scarecrow danced off into the night 
again without a word of thanks. 

The Russian waved to him, and called after him in Russian, ’Good-bye.’ 

Billy took his pecker out, there in the prison night, and peed and peed on the ground. 
Then he put it away again, more or less, and contemplated a new problem: Where had he 
come from, and where should he go now? 

Somewhere in the night there were cries of grief. With nothing better to do, Billy 
shuffled in their direction. He wondered what tragedy so many had found to lament out 
of doors. 

Billy was approaching, without knowing it, the back of the latrine. It consisted of a 
one-rail fence with twelve buckets underneath it. The fence was sheltered on three sides 
by a screen of scrap lumber and flattened tin cans. The open side faced the black tarpaper 
wall of the shed where the feast had, taken place. 

Billy moved along the screen and reached a point where he could see a message 
freshly painted on the tarpaper wall. The words were written with the same pink paint 
which had brightened the set for Cinderella. Billy's perceptions were so unreliable that 
he saw the words as hanging in air, painted on a transparent curtain, perhaps. And there 
were lovely silver dots on the curtain, too. These were really nailheads holding the 
tarpaper to the shed. Billy could not imagine how the curtain was supported in 
nothingness, and he supposed that the magic curtain and the theatrical grief were part of 
some religious ceremony he knew nothing about. 

Here is what the message said: 

PLEASE LEAVE 
THIS LATRINE AS 
TIDY AS YOU 
FOUND IT! 

Billy looked inside the latrine. The wailing was coming from in there. The place was 
crammed with Americans who had taken their pants down. The welcome feast had made 
them as sick as volcanoes. The buckets were full or had been kicked over. 

An American near Billy wailed that he had excreted everything but his brains. 
Moments later he said, ’There they go, there they go.' He meant his brains. 

That was I. That was me. That was the author of this book. 

Billy reeled away from his vision of Hell. He passed three Englishmen who were 
watching the excrement festival from a distance. They were catatonic with disgust. 

'Button your pants!' said one as Billy went by. 

So Billy buttoned his pants. He came to the door of the little hospital by accident. He 
went through the door,, and found himself honeymooning again, going from the 
bathroom back to bed with his bride on Cape Ann. 

'I missed you' said Valencia. 

'I missed you,' said Billy Pilgrim. 



Billy and Valencia went to sleep nestled like spoons, and Billy traveled in time back to 
the train ride he had taken in 194 4 from maneuvers in South Carolina to his father's 
funeral in Ilium. He hadn’t seen Europe or combat yet. This was still in the days of steam 
locomotives. 

Billy had to change trains a lot. All the trains were slow. The coaches stu nk of coal 
smoke and rationed tobacco and rationed booze and the farts of people eating wartime 
food. The upholstery of the iron seats was bristly, and Billy couldn’t sleep much. He got 
to sleep soundly when he was only three hours from Ilium, with his legs splayed toward 
the entrance of the busy dining car. 

The porter woke him up when the train reached Ilium. Billy staggered off with his 
duffel bag, and then he stood on the station platform next to the porter, trying to wake up. 

'Have a good nap, did you?' said the porter. 

'Yes,' said Billy. 

'Man,' said the porter, 'you sure had a hard-on.’ 

At three in the morning on Bill's morphine night in prison, a new patient was carried 
into the hospital by two lusty Englishmen. He was tiny. He was Paul Lazzaro, the polka- 
dotted car thief from Cicero, Illinois. He had been caught stealing cigarettes from under 
the pillow of an Englishman. The Englishman, half asleep, had broken Lazzaro's right 
ann and knocked him unconscious. 

The Englishman who had done this was helping to carry Lazzaro in now. He had fiery 
red hair and no eyebrows. He had been Cinderella's Blue Fairy Godmother in the play. 
Now he supported his half of Lazzaro with one hand while he closed the door behind 
himself with the other. 'Doesn't weigh as much as a chicken,’ he said. 

The Englishman with Lazzaro's feet was the colonel who had given Billy his knock-out 
shot. 

The Blue Fairy Godmother was embarrassed, and angry, too. 'If I’d known I was 
fighting a chicken,’ he said, 'I wouldn’t have fought so hard.’ 

'Urn.' 

The Blue Fairy Godmother spoke frankly about how disgusting all the Americans 
were. 'Weak, smelly, self-pitying-a pack of sniveling, dirty, thieving bastards,’ he said. 
'They're worse than the bleeding Russians.' 

'Do seem a scruffy lot,' the colonel agreed. 

A German major came in now. He considered the Englishmen as close friends. He 
visited them nearly every day, played games with them, lectured to them on Gennan 
history, played their piano, gave them lessons in conversational German. He told them 
often that, if it weren’t for their civilized company, he would go mad. His English was 
splendid. 

He was apologetic about the Englishmen's having to put up with the American enlisted 
men. He promised them that they would not be inconvenienced for more than a day or 
two, that the Americans would soon be shipped to Dresden as contract labor. He had a 
monograph with him, published by the Gennan Association of Prison Officials. It was a 
report on the behavior in Gennany of American enlisted men as prisoners of war. It was 
written by a former American who had risen high in the German Ministry of Propaganda. 



His name was Howard W. Campbell, Jr. He would later hang himself while awaiting trial 
as a war criminal. 

So it goes. 

He smiled, and inclined his head slowly until his cold lips brushed against the skin just under the comer of 
my jaw. 

"Right now?" he whispered, his breath blowing cool on my neck. I shivered involuntarily. 

"Yes," I whispered, so my voice wouldn't have a chance to break. If he thought I was bluffing, he was 
going to be disappointed. I'd already made this decision, and I was sure. It didn't matter that my body 
was rigid as a plank, my hands balled into fists, my breathing erratic. . . 

He chuckled darkly, and leaned away. His face did look disappointed. 

"You can't really believe that I would give in so easily," he said with a sour edge to his mocking tone. 
"A girl can dream." 

His eyebrows rose. "Is that what you dream about? Being a monster?" 

"Not exactiy," I said, frowning at his word choice. Monster, indeed. "Mostiy I dream about being with 
you forever." 

His expression changed, softened and saddened by the subtie ache in my voice. 

"Bella." His fingers lightly traced the shape of my hps. "I will stay with you — isn't that enough?" 

I smiled under his fingertips. "Enough for now." 

He frowned at my tenacity. No one was going to surrender tonight. He exhaled, and the sound was 
practically a growl. 

I touched his face. "Look," I said. "I love you more than everything else in the world combined. Isn't that 
enough?" 

"Yes, it is enough," he answered, smiling. "Enough for forever." 

While the British colonel set Lazzaro's broken arm and mixed plaster for the cast, the 
Gennan major translated out loud passages from Howard W. Campbell, Jr.'s monograph. 
Campbell had been a fairly well- kn own playwright at one time. His opening line was this 
one: 

America is the wealthiest nation on Earth, but its people are mainly poor, and poor 
Americans are urged to hate themselves To quote the American humorist Kin Hubbard, 

'It ain’t no disgrace to be poor, but might as well be.’ It is in fact a crime for an American 
to be poor, even though America is a nation of poor. Every other nation has folk 
traditions of men who were poor but extremely wise and virtuous, and therefore more 
estimable than anyone with power and gold. No such tales are told by the American 
poor. They mock themselves and glorify their betters. The meanest eating or drinking 
establishment, owned by a man who is himself poor, is very likely to have a sign on its 
wall asking this cruel question: 'If you're so smart, why ain’t You rich? ' There will also 
be an American flag no larger than a child's hand-glued to a lollipop stick and, flying 
from the cash register. 

The author of the monograph, a native of Schenectady, New York, was said by some to 
have had the highest I.Q. of all the war criminals who were made to face a death by 
hanging. So it goes. 

Americans, like human beings everywhere, believe many things that are obviously 
untrue, the monograph went on. Their most destructive untruth is that it is very easy for 
any American to make money. They will not acknowledge how in fact hard money is to 
come by, and, therefore, those who have no money blame and blame and blame 
themselves. This inward blame has been a treasure for the rich and powerful, who have 
had to do less for their poor, publicly and privately, than any other ruling class since, say, 
Napoleonic times. 

Many novelties have come from America. The most startling of these, a thing without 
precedent, is a mass of undignified poor. They do not love one another because they do 
not love themselves. Once this is understood the disagreeable behavior of American 
enlisted men in German prisons ceases to be a mystery. 

Howard W. Cambell, Jr., now discussed the uniform of the American enlisted in the 
Second World War: Every other army in history, prosperous or not, has attempted to 
clothe even its lowliest soldiers so as to make them impressive to themselves and others 
as stylish experts in drinking and copulation and looting and sudden death. The American 
Army, however, sends its enlisted men out to fight and die in a modified business suit 
quite evidently made for another man, a sterilized but unpressed gift from a nose-holding 
charity which passes out clothing to drunks in the slums. 

When a dashingly-clad officer addresses such a frumpishly dressed bum, he scolds 
him, as an officer in an army must. But the officer's contempt is not, as in 'other annies, 
avuncular theatricality. It is a genuine expression of hatred for the poor, who have no one 
to blame for their misery but themselves. 



A prison administrator dealing with captured American enlisted men for the first time 
should be warned: Expect no brotherly love, even between brothers. There will be no 
cohesion between the individuals. Each will be a sulky child who often wishes he were 
dead 

Campbell told what the Gennan experience with captured American enlisted men had 
been. They were kn own everywhere to be the most self-pitying, least fraternal and dirtiest 
of all prisoners of war, said Campbell. They were incapable of concerted action on their 
own behalf. They despised any leader from among their own number, refused to follow 
or even listen to him, on the grounds that he was no better than they were, that he should 
stop putting on airs. 

And so on. Billy Pilgrim went to sleep, woke up as a widower in his empty home in 
Ilium. His daughter Barbara was reproaching him for writing ridiculous letters to the 
newspapers. 

’Did you hear what I said?' Barbara inquired. It was 1968 again. 

'Of course.’ He had been dozing. 

’If you're going to act like a child, maybe we’ll just have to treat you like a child.' 

'That isn’t what happens next,' said Billy. 

'We’ll see what happens next.’ Big Barbara now embraced herself. 'It's awfully cold in 
here. Is the heat on?' 

'The heat? ' 

'The furnace-the thing in the basement, the thing that makes hot air that comes out of 
these registers. I don’t think it's working.’ 

'Maybe not.’ 

'Aren't you cold?' 

'I hadn't noticed.’ 

'Oh my God, you are a child. If we leave you alone here, you’ll freeze to death, you'll 
starve to death.’ And so on. It was very exciting for her, taking his dignity away in the 
name of love. 

Barbara called the oil-burner man, and she made Billy go to bed, made him promise to 
stay under the electric blanket until the heat came on. She set the control of the blanket at 
the highest notch, which soon made Billy's bed hot enough to bake bread in. 

When Barbara left, slamming the door behind her, Billy traveled in time to the zoo on 
Tralfamadore again. A mate has just been brought to him from Earth. She was Montana 
Wildhack, a motion picture star. 

Montana was under heavy sedation. Tralfamadorians wearing gas masks brought her 
in, put her on Billy's yellow lounge chair; withdrew through his airlock. The vast crowd 
outside was delighted. All attendance records for the zoo were broken. Everybody on the 
planet wanted to see the Earthlings mate. 

Montana was naked, and so was Billy, of course. He had a tremendous wang, 
incidentally. You never know who’ll get one. 



Now she fluttered her eyelids. Her lashes were like buggy whips. 'Where am I?' she 
said. 

'Everything is all right,' said Billy gently. 'Please don't be afraid. 

Montana had been unconscious during her trip from Earth. The Tralfamadorians 
hadn’t talked to her, hadn't shown themselves to her. The last thing she remembered was 
sunning herself by a swimming pool in Palm Springs, California. Montana was only 
twenty years old. Around her neck was a silver chain with a heart-shaped locket hanging 
from it-between her breasts. 

Now she turned her head to see the myriads of Tralfamadorians outside the dome. 

They were applauding her by opening and closing their little green hands quickly. 

Montana screamed and screamed. 

All the little green hands closed fight, because Montana's terror was so unpleasant to 
see. The head zoo keeper ordered a crane operator, who was standing by, to drop a navy 
blue canopy over the dome, thus simulating Earthling night inside. Real night came to the 
zoo for only one Earthling hour out of every sixty-two. 

Billy switched on a floor lamp. The light from the single source threw the baroque 
detailing of Montana's body into sharp relief. Billy was reminded of fantastic architecture 
in Dresden, before it was bombed. 

In time, Montana came to love and trust Billy Pilgrim. He did not touch her until she 
made it clear that she wanted him to. After she had been on Tralfamadore for what would 
have been an Earthling week, she asked him shyly if he wouldn't sleep with her. Which 
he did. It was heavenly. 

And Billy traveled in time from that delightful bed to a bed in 1968. It was his bed in 
Ilium, and the electric blanket was turned up high. He was drenched in sweat, 
remembered groggily that his daughter had put him to bed, had told him to stay there 
until the oil burner was repaired. 

Somebody was knocking on his bedroom door. 

'Yes?' said Billy. 

'Oil-burner man.’ 

'Yes?' 

'It’s running good now. Heat's coming up.' 

'Good.' 

'Mouse ate through a wire from the thermostat' 

'I'll be darned.’ 

Billy sniffed. His hot bed smelled like a mushroom cellar. He had had a wet dream 
about Montana Wildhack. 

On the morning after that wet dream, Billy decided to go back to work in his office in 
the shopping plaza. Business was booming as usual. His assistants were keeping up with 
it nicely. They were startled to see him. They had been told by his daughter that he might 
never practice again. 

But Billy went into his examining room briskly, asked that the first patient be sent in. 
So they sent him one-a twelve-year old boy who was accompanied by his-widowed 



mother. They were strangers, new in town. Billy asked them a little about themselves, 
learned that the boy's father had been killed in Vietnam-in the famous five-day battle for 
Hill 875 near Dakto. So it goes. 

While he examined the boy's eyes, Billy told him matter-of-factly about his adventures 
on Tralfamadore, assured the fatherless boy that his father was very much alive still in 
moments the boy would see again and again. 

'Isn't that comforting?' Billy asked. 

And somewhere in there, the boy's mother went out and told the receptionist that Billy 
was evidently going crazy. Billy was taken home. His daughter asked him again, 'Father, 
Father, Father-what are we going to do with you?' 

Six 

Listen: 

Billy Pilgrim says he went to Dresden Germany, on the day after his morphine night in 
the British compound in the center of the extermination camp for Russian prisoners of 
war. Billy woke up at dawn on that day in January. There were no windows in the little 
hospital, and the ghostly candles had gone out. So the only light came from pin-prick 
holes in the walls, and from a sketchy rectangle that outlined the imperfectly fitted door. 
Little Paul Lazzaro, with a broken arm, snored on one bed. Edgar Derby, the high school 
teacher who would eventually he shot, snored on another. 

Billy sat up in bed. He had no idea what year it was or what planet he was on. 

Whatever the planet's name was, it was cold. But it wasn’t the cold that had awakened 
Billy. It was animal magnetism which was making him shiver and itch. It gave him 
profound aches in his musculature, as though he had been exercising hard. 

The animal magnetism was coming from behind him. If Billy had had to guess as to 
the source, he would have said that there was a vampire bat hanging upside down on the 
wall behind him. 

Billy moved down toward the foot of his cot before turning to look at whatever it was. 
He didn’t want the animal to drop into his face and maybe claw his eyes out or bite off his 
big nose. Then he turned. The source of the magnetism really did resemble a bat. It was 
Billy's impresario's coat with the fur collar. It was hanging from a nail. 

Billy now backed toward it again, looking at it over his shoulder, feeling the 
magnetism increase. Then he faced it, kneeling on his cot, dared to touch it here and 
there. He was seeking the exact source of the radiations. 

He found two small sources, two lumps an inch apart and hidden in the lining. One was 
shaped like a pea. The other was shaped like a tiny horseshoe. Billy received a message 
carried by the radiations. He was told not to find out what the lumps were. He was 
advised to be content with knowing that they could work miracles for him, provided he 
did not insist on learning their nature. That was all right with Billy Pilgrim. He was 
grateful. He was glad. 


Billy dozed, awakened in the prison hospital again. The sun was high. Outside were 
Golgotha sounds of strong men digging holes for upright timbers in hard, hard ground. 



Englishmen were building themselves a new latrine. They had abandoned their old latrine 
to the American d their theater the place where the feast had been held, too. 

Six Englishmen staggered through a hospital with a pool table on which several 
mattresses were piled. They were transferring it to living quarters attached to the hospital. 
They were followed by an Englishman dragging his mattress and carrying a dartboard. 


'Son of a bitch bit me. So 1 got me some steak, and I got me the spring out of a clock. I 
cut that spring up in little pieces. I put points on the ends of the pieces. They were sharp 
as razor blades. I stuck 'em into the steak-way inside. And I went past where they had the 
dog tied up. He wanted to bite me again. I said to him, 'Come on., doggie-let's be friends. 
Let's not be enemies any more. I'm not mad." He believed me.’ 

'He did?’ 

'I threw him the steak. He swallowed it down in one big gulp. I waited around for ten 
minutes.' Now Lazzaro's eyes twinkled. 'Blood started coming out of his mouth. He 
started crying, and he rolled on the ground, as though the knives were on the outside of 
him instead of on the inside of him. Then he tried to bite out his own insides. I laughed, 
and I said to him, "You got the right idea now. Tear your own guts out, boy. That's me in 
there with ah those knives.'" So it goes. 

'Anybody ever asks you what the sweetest thing in life is-' said Lazzaro, 'it's revenge.’ 

When Dresden was destroyed later on, incidentally, Lazzaro did not exult. He didn’t 
have anything against the Germans, he said. Also, he said he liked to take his enemies 
one at a time. He was proud of never having hurt an innocent bystander. 'Nobody ever 
got it from Lazzaro,' he said, 'who didn’t have it coming.’ 


Poor old Edgar Derby, the high school teacher, got into the conversation now. He 
asked Lazzaro if he planned to feed the Blue Fairy Godmother clock springs and steak. 



'Shit,' said Lazzaro. 

'He's a pretty big man,' said Derby, who, of course, was a pretty big man himself. 

'Size don’t mean a thing.’ 

'You're going to shoot him?’ 

'I'm gonna have him shot,' said Lazzaro. 'He’ll get home after the war. He’ll be a big 
hero. The dames'll be climbing all over him. He’ll settle down. A couple of years'll go by. 
And then one day there’ll be a knock on his door. He’ll answer the door, and there’ll be a 
stranger out there. The stranger’ll ask him if he's so-and-so. When he says he is, the 
stranger’ll say, "Paul Lazzaro sent me." And he’ll pull out a gun and shoot his pecker off. 
The stranger’ll let him think a couple of seconds about who Paul Lazzaro is and what 
life's gonna be like without a pecker. Then he’ll shoot him once in the guts and walk 
away.' So it goes. 

13:1 And Abram went up out of Egypt, he, and his wife, and all that he
had, and Lot with him, into the south.

13:2 And Abram was very rich in cattle, in silver, and in gold.

13:3 And he went on his journeys from the south even to Bethel, unto
the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and
Hai; 13:4 Unto the place of the altar, which he had made there at the
first: and there Abram called on the name of the LORD.


"Let's go." Alice reached for Emmett's hand and they darted toward the oversized field; she ran like a 
gazelle. He was nearly as graceful and just as fast — yet Emmett could never be compared to a gazelle. 

"Are you ready for some ball?" Edward asked, his eyes eager, bright. 

I tried to sound appropriately enthusiastic. "Go team!" 

He snickered and, after mussing my hair, bounded off after the other two. His run was more aggressive, a 
cheetah rather than a gazelle, and he quickly overtook them. The grace and power took my breath away. 

"Shall we go down?" Esme asked in her soft, melodic voice, and I realized I was staring openmouthed 
after him. I quickly reassembled my expression and nodded. Esme kept a few feet between us, and I 
wondered if she was still being careful not to frighten me. She matched her stride to mine without seeming 
impatient at the pace. 

"You don't play with them?" I asked shyly. 

"No, I prefer to referee — I like keeping them honest," she explained. 
"Do they like to cheat, then?" 

"Oh yes — you should hear the arguments they get into! Actually, I hope you don't, you would think they 
were raised by a pack of wolves." 

"You sound like my mom," I laughed, surprised. 

She laughed, too. "Well, I do think of them as my children in most ways. I never could get over my 
mothering instincts — did Edward tell you I had lost a child?" 

"No," I murmured, stunned, scrambling to understand what lifetime she was remembering. 

"Yes, my first and only baby. He died just a few days after he was bom, the poor tiny thing," she sighed. 
"It broke my heart — that's why I jumped off the cliff, you know," she added matter-of-factly. 

"Edward just said you f-fell," I stammered. 

"Always the gentleman." She smiled. "Edward was the first of my new sons. I've always thought of him 
that way, even though he's older than I, in one way at least." She smiled at me warmly. "That's why I'm 
so happy that he's found you, dear." The endearment sounded very natural on her hps. "He's been the 
odd man out for far too long; it's hurt me to see him alone." 

"You don't mind, then?" I asked, hesitant again. "That I'm. . . all wrong for him?" 

"No." She was thoughtful. "You're what he wants. It will work out, somehow," she said, though her 
forehead creased with worry. Another peal of thunder began. 

Esme stopped then; apparently, we'd reached the edge of the field. It looked as if they had formed 
teams. Edward was far out in left field, Carlisle stood between the first and second bases, and Alice held 
the ball, positioned on the spot that must be the pitcher's mound. 

Emmett was swinging an aluminum bat; it whistled almost untraceably through the air. I waited for him to 
approach home plate, but then I realized, as he took his stance, that he was already there — farther from 
the pitcher's mound than I would have thought possible. Jasper stood several feet behind him, catching 
for the other team. Of course, none of them had gloves. 



"All right," Esme called in a clear voice, which I knew even Edward would hear, as far out as he was. 
"Batter up." 

Alice stood straight, deceptively motionless. Her style seemed to be stealth rather than an intimidating 
windup. She held the ball in both hands at her waist, and then, like the strike of a cobra, her right hand 
flicked out and the ball smacked into Jasper's hand. 

"Was that a strike?" I whispered to Esme. 

"If they don't hit it, it's a strike," she told me. 

Jasper hurled the ball back to Alice's waiting hand. She permitted herself a brief grin. And then her hand 
spun out again. 

This time the bat somehow made it around in time to smash into the invisible ball. The crack of impact 
was shattering, thunderous; it echoed off the mountains — I immediately understood the necessity of the 
thunderstorm. 

The ball shot like a meteor above the field, flying deep into the surrounding forest. 
"Home run," I murmured. 

"Wait," Esme cautioned, Ustening intentiy, one hand raised. Emmett was a blur around the bases, Carlisle 
shadowing him. I realized Edward was missing. 

13:5 And Lot also, which went with Abram, had flocks, and herds, and
tents.

13:6 And the land was not able to bear them, that they might dwell
together: for their substance was great, so that they could not dwell
together.

13:7 And there was a strife between the herdmen of Abram’s cattle and
the herdmen of Lot’s cattle: and the Canaanite and the Perizzite
dwelled then in the land.

13:8 And Abram said unto Lot, Let there be no strife, I pray thee,
between me and thee, and between my herdmen and thy herdmen; for we be
brethren.

13:9 Is not the whole land before thee? separate thyself, I pray thee,
from me: if thou wilt take the left hand, then I will go to the right;
or if thou depart to the right hand, then I will go to the left.

13:10 And Lot lifted up his eyes, and beheld all the plain of Jordan,
that it was well watered every where, before the LORD destroyed Sodom
and Gomorrah, even as the garden of the LORD, like the land of Egypt,
as thou comest unto Zoar.

13:11 Then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan; and Lot journeyed
east: and they separated themselves the one from the other.

13:12 Abram dwelled in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelled in the
cities of the plain, and pitched his tent toward Sodom.

13:13 But the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners before the LORD
exceedingly.

13:14 And the LORD said unto Abram, after that Lot was separated from
him, Lift up now thine eyes, and look from the place where thou art
northward, and southward, and eastward, and westward: 13:15 For all
the land which thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed for
ever.

13:16 And I will make thy

Lazzaro said that he could have anybody in the world killed for a thousand dollars plus 
traveling expenses. He had a list in his head, he said. 

Derby asked him who all was on the list, and Lazzaro said, 'Just make fucking sure you 
don’t get on it. just don’t cross me, that's all.’ There was a silence, and then he added, 'And 
don’t cross my friends.’ 

'You have friends?' Derby wanted to know. 

'In the war?' said Lazzaro. 'Yeah-I had a friend in the war. He's dead.’ So it goes. 

'That's too bad.' 

Lazzaro's eyes were twinkling again. 'Yeah. He was my buddy on the boxcar. His 
name was Roland Weary. He died in my arms.' Now he pointed to Billy with his one 
mobile hand. 'He died on account of this silly cocksucker here. So I promised him 
I’d have this silly cocksucker shot after the war.’ 

Lazzaro erased with his hand anything Billy Pilgrim might be about to say. 'Just forget 
about it, kid,’ he said. 'Enjoy life while you can. Nothing's gonna happen for maybe five, 
ten, fifteen, twenty years. But lemme give you a piece of advice: Whenever the doorbell 
rings, have somebody else answer the door.’ 

Billy Pilgrim says now that this really is the way he is going to die, too. As a time- 
traveler, he has seen his own death many times, has described it to a tape recorder. The 
tape is locked up with his will and some other valuables in his safe-deposit box at the 
Ilium Merchants National Bank and Trust, he says. 

I, Billy Pilgrim, the tape begins, will die, have died and always will die on February 
thirteenth, 1976. 

At the time of his death, he says, he is in Chicago to address a large crowd on the 
subject of flying saucers and the true nature of time. His home is still in Ilium. He has had 
to cross three international boundaries in order to reach Chicago. The United States of 
America has been Balkanized, has been divided into twenty petty nations so that it will 
never again be a threat to world peace. Chicago has been hydrogen-bombed by Angry 
Chinamen. So it goes. It is all brand new. 

Billy is speaking before a capacity audience in a baseball park, which is covered by a 
geodesic dome. The flag of the country is behind him. It is a Hereford Bull on a field of 
green. Billy predicts his own death within an hour. He laughed about it, invites the crowd 
to laugh with him. 'It is high time I was dead..’ he says. 'Many years ago.' he said, 'a 



certain man promised to have me killed. He is an old man now, living not far from here. 
He has read all the publicity associated with my appearance in your fair city. He is 
insane. Tonight he will keep his promise.’ 

There are protests from the crowd. 

Billy Pilgrim rebukes them. ’If you protest, if you think that death is a terrible thing, 
then you have not understood a word I’ve said.' Now he closes his speech as he closes 
every speech with these words: 'Farewell, hello, farewell, hello.’ 

There are police around him as he leaves the stage. They are there to protect him from 
the crush of popularity. No threats on his life have been made since 1945. The police 
offer to stay with him. They are floridly willing to stand in a circle around him all night, 
with their zap guns drawn. 

'No, no,' says Billy serenely. 'It is time for you to go home to your wives and children, 
and it is time for me to be dead for a little while-and then live again.’ At that moment, 
Billy's high forehead is in the cross hairs of a high-powered laser gun. It is aimed at him 
from the darkened press box. In the next moment, Billy Pilgrim is dead. So it goes. 

So Billy experiences death for a while. It is simply violet light and a hum. There isn’t 
anybody else there. Not even Billy Pilgrim is there. 

Then he swings back into life again, all the way back to an hour after his life was 
threatened by Lazzaro-in 1945. He has been told to get out of his hospital bed and dress, 
that he is well. He and Lazzaro and poor old Edgar Derby are to join their fellows in the 
theater. There they will choose a leader for themselves by secret ballot in a free election. 

Billy and Lazzaro and poor old Edgar Derby crossed the prison yard to the theater 
now. Billy was carrying his little coat as though it were a lady's muff. It was wrapped 
around and round his hands. He was the central clown in an unconscious travesty of that 
famous oil painting, 'The Spirit of 76.’ 

Edgar Derby was writing letters home in his head, telling his Wife that he was alive 
and well, that she shouldn’t worry, that the war was. nearly over, that he would soon be 
home. 

Lazzaro was talking to himself about people he was going to have killed after the war, 
and rackets he was going to work, and women he was going to make fuck Mm, whether 
they wanted to or not. If he had been a dog in a city, a policeman would have shot him 
and sent his head to a laboratory, to see if he had rabies. So it goes. 

As they neared the theater, they came upon an Englishman who was hacking a groove 
in the Earth with the heel of his boot. He was marking the boundary between the 
American and English sections of the compound. Billy and Lazzaro and Derby didn't 
have to ask what the line meant. It was a familiar symbol from childhood. 

The theater was paved with American bodies that nestled like spoons. Most of the 
Americans were in stupors or asleep. Their guts were fluttering, dry. 

'Close the fucking door,' somebody said to Billy. 'Were you born I'm a barn?' 

Billy closed it., took a hand from his muff, touched a stove. It was as cold as ice. The 
stage was still set for Cinderella. Azure curtains hung from the arches which were 
shocking pink. There were golden thrones and the dummy clock, whose hands were set at 



midnight. Cinderella's slippers, which were a man's boots painted silver, were capsized 
side by side under a golden throne. 

Billy and poor old Edgar Derby and Lazzaro had been in the hospital when the British 
passed out blankets and mattresses, so they had none. They had to improvise. The only 
space open to them was up on the stage, and they went up there, pulled the azure curtains 
down, made nests. 

Billy, curled in his azure nest., found himself staring at Cinderella's silver boots under 
a throne. And then he remembered that his shoes were ruined, that he needed boots. He 
hated to get out of his nest., but he forced himself to do it. He crawled to the boots on all 
fours, sat, tried them on. 

The boots fit perfectly. Billy Pilgrim was Cinderella, and Cinderella was Billy Pilgrim. 

Somewhere in there was a lecture on personal hygiene by the head Englishman., and 
then a free election. At least half the Americans went on snoozing through it all. The 
Englishman’ got up on the stage, and he rapped on the arm of a throne with 
a swagger stick, called, 'Lads, lads, lad I have your attention, please?’ And so on. 

What the Englishman, said about survival was this 'If you stop taking pride'm your 
appearance, you will very soon die.’ He said that he had seen several men die in the 
following way: They ceased to stand up straight, then ceased to shave or wash, then 
ceased to get out of bed, then ceased to talk, then died. There is this much to be said for 
it: it is evidently a very easy and painless way to go.’ So it goes. 

The Englishman said that he, when captured, had made and kept the following vows to 
himself: To brush his teeth twice a day, to shave once a day, to wash his face and hands 
before every meal and after going to the latrine, to polish his shoes once a day, to 
exercise for at least half an hour each morning and then move his bowels, and to look into 
a mirror frequently, frankly evaluating his appearance, particularly with respect to 
posture. 




Two or three people said, ’Aye.' 


Then poor old Derby made a speech. He thanked the Englishman for his good advice, 
said he meant to follow it exactly. He said he was sure that all the other Americans would 
do the mm. He said that his primary responsibility now was to make damn well sure that 
everybody got home safely. 

'Go take a flying fuck at a rolling doughnut,' murmured Paul Lazzaro in his azure nest. 
'Go take a flying fuck at the moon.' 

The temperature climbed startlingly that day. The noontime was balmy. The Germans 
brought soup and bread in two-wheeled carts which were pulled by Russians. The 
Englishmen sent over real coffee and sugar and marmalade and cigarettes and cigars, and 
the doors of the theater were left open, so the wannth could get in. 

The Americans began to feel much better. They were able to hold their food. And then 
it was time to go to Dresden. The Americans marched fairly stylishly out of the British 
compound. Billy Pilgrim again led the parade. He had silver boots now, and a muff, and a 
piece of azure curtain which he wore like a toga. Billy still had a beard. So did poor old 
Edgar Derby, who was beside him. Derby was imagining letters to home, his lips 
working tremulously. 

Dear Margaret-We are leaving for Dresden today. Don t worry. It will never be 
bombed. It is an open city. There was an election at noon, and guess what? And so on. 

They came to the prison railroad yard again. They had arrived on only two cars. They 
would depart far more comfortably on four. They saw the dead hobo again. He was 
frozen stiff in the weeds beside the track. He was in a fetal position, trying even in death 
to nestle like a spoon with others. There were no others now. He was nestling within thin 
air and cinders. Somebody had taken his boots. His bare feet were blue and ivory. It was 
all right, somehow, his being dead. So it goes. 

The trip to Dresden was a lark. It took only two hours. Shriveled little bellies were full. 
Sunlight and cold air came in through the ventilators. There were plenty of smokes from 
the Englishmen. 

The Americans arrived in Dresden at five in the afternoon. The boxcar doors were 
opened, and the doorways framed the loveliest city that most of the Americans had ever 
seen. The skyline was intricate and voluptuous and enchanted and absurd. It looked like a 
Sunday school picture of Heaven to Billy Pilgrim. 

Somebody behind him in the boxcar said, 'Oz.' That was I. That was me. The only 
other city I’d ever seen was Indianapolis, Indiana. 

Every other big city in Germany had been bombed and burned ferociously. Dresden 
had not suffered so much as a cracked windowpane. Sirens went off every day, screamed 
like hell, and people went down into cellars and listened to radios there. The planes were 
always bound for someplace else-Leipzig, Chemnitz, Plauen, places like that. So it goes. 

Steam radiators still whistled cheerily in Dresden. Street-cars clanged. Telephones rang 
and were answered. Lights went on and off when switches were clicked. There were 



theaters and restaurants. There was a zoo. The principal enterprises of the city were 
medicine and food-processing and the making of cigarettes. 

People were going home from work now in the late afternoon. They were tired. 

Eight Dresdeners crossed the steel spaghetti of the railroad yard. They were wearing 
new uniforms. They had been sworn into the army the day before. They were boys and 
men past middle age, and two veterans who had been shot to pieces in Russia. Their 
assignment was to guard one hundred American prisoners of war, who would work as 
contract labor. A grandfather and his grandson were in the squad. The grandfather was an 
architect. 

The eight were grim as they approached the boxcars containing their wards. They 
knew what sick and foolish soldiers they themselves appeared to be. One of them actually 
had an artificial leg, and carried not only a loaded rifle but a cane. Still they were 
expected to earn obedience and respect from tall cocky, murderous American 
infantrymen who had just come from all the killing of the front. 

And then they saw bearded Billy Pilgrim in his blue toga and silver shoes, with his 
hands in a muff. He looked at least sixty years old. Next to Billy was little Paul Lazzaro 
with a broken arm. He was fizzing with rabies. Next to Lazzaro was the poor old high 
school teacher, Edgar Derby, mournfully pregnant with patriotism and middle age and 
imaginary wisdom. And so on. 

The eight ridiculous Dresdeners ascertained that these hundred ridiculous creatures 
really were American lighting men fresh from the front. They smiled, and then they 
laughed. Their terror evaporated. There was nothing to be afraid of. Here were more 
crippled human beings, more fools like themselves. Here was light opera. 

So out of the gate of the railroad yard and into the streets of Dresden marched the light 
opera. Billy Pilgrim was the star. He led the parade. Thousands of people were on the 
sidewalks, going home from work. They were watery and putty-colored, having eaten 
mostly potatoes during the past two years. They had expected no blessings beyond the 
mildness of the day. Suddenly-here was fun. 

Billy did not meet many of the eyes that found him so entertaining. He was enchanted 
by the architecture of the city. Merry amoretti wove garlands above windows. Roguish 
fauns and naked nymphs peeked down at Billy from festooned cornices. Stone monkeys 
frisked among scrolls and seashells and bamboo. 

Billy, with his memories of the future, knew that the city would be smashed to 
smithereens and then burned-in about thirty more days. He knew, too, that most of the 
people watching him would soon be dead. So it goes. 

And Billy worked his hands in his muff as he marched. His fingertips, working there in 
the hot darkness of the muff, wanted to know what the two lumps in the lining of the little 
impresario's coat were. The fingertips got inside the lining. They palpated the lumps, the 
pea-shaped thing and the horseshoe-shaped thing. The parade had to halt by a busy 
comer. The traffic light was red. 

There at the comer, in the front rank of pedestrians, was a surgeon who had been 
operating all day. He was a civilian, but his posture was military. He had served in two 
world wars. The sight of Billy offended him, especially after he learned from the guards 



that Billy was an American. It seemed to Wm that Billy was in abominable taste, 
supposed that Billy had gone to a lot of silly trouble to costume himself just so. 

The surgeon spoke English, and he said to Billy, 'I take it you find war a very comical 
thing.’ 

Billy looked at him vaguely. Billy had lost track momentarily of where he was or how 
he had gotten there. He had no idea that people thought he was clowning. It was Fate, of 
course, which had costumed him-Fate, and a feeble will to survive. 

’Did you expect us to laugh?' the surgeon asked him. 

The surgeon was demanding some sort of satisfaction. Billy was mystified. Billy 
wanted to be friendly, to help, if he could, but his resources were meager. His fingers 
now held the two objects from the lining of the coat. Billy decided to show the surgeon 
what they were. 

'You thought we would enjoy being mocked?’ the surgeon said. 'And do you feel proud 
to represent America as you do?' Billy withdrew a hand from his muff, held it under the 
surgeon's nose. On his palm rested a two-carat diamond and a partial denture. The 
denture was an obscene little artifact-silver and pearl and tangerine. Billy smiled. 

The parade pranced, staggered and reeled to the gate of the Dresden slaughterhouse, 
and then it went inside. The slaughterhouse wasn't a busy place any more. Almost all the 
hooved animals in Gennany had been killed and eaten and excreted by human beings, 
mostly soldiers. So it goes. 

The Americans were taken to the fifth building inside the gate. It was a one-story 
cement-block cube with sliding doors in front and back. It had been built as a shelter for 
pigs about to be butchered. Now it was going to serve as a home away from home for one 
hundred American prisoners of war. There were hu nk s in there, and two potbellied stoves 
and a water tap. Behind it was a latrine, which was a one-rail fence with buckets under it. 

There was a big number over the door of the building. The number was five. Before 
the Americans could go inside, their only English-speaking guard told them to memorize 
their simple address, in case they got lost in the big city. Their address was this: 
'Schlachthof-funf.' Schlachthof meant slaughterhouse. Funf was good old five. 

Seven 

Billy Pilgrim got onto a chartered airplane in Ilium twenty-five years after that. He knew 
he was going to crash, but he didn’t want to make a fool of himself by saying so. It was 
supposed to carry Billy and twenty-eight other optometrists to a convention in Montreal. 

His wife, Valencia, was outside, and his father-in-law, Lionel Merble, was strapped to 
the seat beside him. 

Lionel Merble was a machine. Tralfamadorians, of course, say that every creature and 
plant in the Universe is a machine. It amuses them that so many Earthlings are offended 
by the idea of being machines. 

Outside the plane, the machine named Valencia Merble Pilgrim was eating a Peter Paul 
Mound Bar and waving bye-bye. 



The plane took off without incident. The moment was structured that way. There was a 
barbershop quartet on board. They were optometrists, too. They called themselves ’The 
Febs,' which was an acronym for 'Four-eyed Bastards.' 

When the plane was safely aloft, the machine that was Bill's father-in-law asked the 
quartet to sing his favorite song. They knew what song he meant, and they sang it, and it 
went like this: 

In my prison cell I sit, 

With my britches full of shit, 

And my balls are bouncing gently on the floor. 

And I see the bloody snag 

When she bit me in the bag. 

Oh, I'll never fuck a Polack any more. 

Billy's father-in-law laughed and laughed at that, and he begged the quartet to sing the 
other Polish song he liked so much. So they sang a song from the Pennsylvania coal 
mines that began: 

Me, and Mike, ve vork in mine. 

Holy shit, ve have good time. 

Vunce a veek ve get our pay. 

Holy shit, no vork next day. 

Speaking of people from Poland: Billy- Pilgrim accidentally saw a Pole hanged in 
public, about three days after Billy got to Dresden. Billy just happened to be walking to 
work with some others shortly after sunrise, and they came to a gallows and a small 
crowd in front of a soccer stadium. The Pole was a farm laborer who was being hanged 
for having had sexual intercourse with a German woman. So it goes. 

Billy, knowing the plane was going to crash pretty soon, closed his eyes, traveled in 
time back to 1944. He was back in the forest in Luxembourg again-with the Three 
Musketeers. Roland Weary was shaking him, bonking his head against a tree. 'You guys 
go on without me,' said Billy Pilgrim. 

The barbershop quartet on the airplane was singing 'Wait Till the Sun Shines, Nelly,' 
when the plane smacked into the top of Sugarbush Mountain in Vennont. Everybody was 
killed but Billy and the copilot. So it goes. 

The people who first got to the crash scene were young Austrian ski instructors from 
the famous ski resort below. They spoke to each other in German as they went from body 
to body. They wore black wind masks with two holes for their eyes and a red topknot. 
They looked like golliwogs, like white people pretending to be black for the laughs they 
could get. 

Billy had a fractured skull, but he was still conscious. He didn’t know where he was. 
His lips were working, and one of the golliwogs put his ear close to them to hear what 
might be his dying words. 



Billy thought the golliwog had something to do with the Second World War, and he 
whispered to him his address: 'Schlachthof-funf.' 

Billy was brought down Sugarbush Mountain on a toboggan. The golliwogs controlled 
it with ropes and yodeled melodiously for right-of-way. Near the bottom, the trail 
swooped around the pylons of a chair lift. Billy looked up at all the young people in 
bright elastic clothing and enormous boots and goggles, bombed out of their skulls with 
snow, swinging through the sky in yellow chairs. He supposed that they were part of an 
amazing new phase of the Second World War. It was all right with him. Everything was 
pretty much all right with Billy. 

He was taken to a small private hospital. A famous brain surgeon came up from Boston 
and operated on him for three hours. Billy was unconscious for two days after that, and 
he dreamed millions of things, some of them true. The true things were time-travel. 

One of the true things was his first evening in the slaughterhouse. He and poor old 
Edgar Derby were pushing an empty two-wheeled cart down a dirt lane between empty 
pens for animals. They were going to a communal kitchen for supper for all. They were 
guarded by a sixteen-year-old German named Werner Gluck. The axles of the cart were 
greased with the fat of dead animals. So it goes. 

The sun had just gone down, and its afterglow was backlighting the city, which formed 
low cliffs around the bucolic void to the idle stockyards. The city was blacked out 
because bombers might come, so Billy didn’t get to see Dresden do one of the most 
cheerful things a city is capable of doing when the sun goes down, which is to wink its 
lights on one by one. 

There was a broad river to reflect those lights, which would have made their nighttime 
winkings very pretty indeed. It was the Elbe. 

Wemer Gluck, the young guard, was a Dresden boy. He had never been in the 
slaughterhouse before, so he wasn’t sure where the kitchen was. He was tall and weak 
like Billy, might have been a younger brother of his. They were, in fact, distant cousins, 
something they never found out. Gluck was armed with an incredibly heavy musket, a 
single-shot museum piece with an octagonal barrel and a smooth bore. He had fixed his 
bayonet. It was like a long knitting needle. It had no blood gutters. 

Gluck led the way to a building that he thought might contain the kitchen, and he 
opened the sliding doors in its side. There wasn't a kitchen in there, though. There was a 
dressing room adjacent to a communal shower, and there was a lot of steam. In the steam 
were about thirty teen-age girls with no clothes on. They were German refugees from 
Breslau, which had been tremendously bombed. They had just arrived in Dresden, too. 
Dresden was jammed with refugees. 

There those girls were with all their private parts bare, for anybody to see. And there in 
the doorway were Gluck and Derby and Pilgrim-the childish soldier and the poor old high 
school teacher and the clown in his toga and silver shoes-staring. The girls screamed. 
They covered themselves with their hands and turned their backs and so on, and made 
themselves utterly beautiful. 

Wemer Gluck, who had never seen a naked woman before, closed the door. Bill had 
never seen one, either. It was nothing new to Derby. 



When the three fools found the communal kitchen, whose main job was to make lunch 
for workers in the slaughterhouse, everybody had gone home but one woman who had 
been waiting for them impatiently. She was a war widow. So it goes. She had her hat and 
coat on. She wanted to go home, too, even though there wasn’t anybody there. Her white 
gloves were laid out side by side on the zinc counter top. 

She had two big cans of soup for the Americans. It was simmering over low fires on 
the gas range. She had stacks of loaves of black bread, too. 

She asked Gluck if he wasn’t awfully young to be in the army. He admitted that he 
was. 

She asked Edgar Derby if he wasn't awfully old to be in the army. He said he was. 

She asked Billy Pilgrim what he was supposed to be. Billy said he didn’t know. He was 
just trying to keep warm. 

’All the real soldiers are dead,’ she said. It was true. So it goes. 

Another true thing that Billy saw while he was unconscious in Vermont was the work 
that he and the others had to do in Dresden during the month before the city was 
destroyed. They washed windows and swept floors and cleaned lavatories and put jars 
into boxes and sealed cardboard boxes in a factory that made malt syrup. The syrup was 
enriched with vitamins and minerals. The syrup was for pregnant women. 

The syrup tasted like thin honey laced with hickory smoke, and everybody who 
worked in the factory secretly spooned it all day long. They weren’t pregnant, but they 
needed vitamins and minerals, too. Billy didn’t spoon syrup on his first day at work, but 
lots of other Americans did. 

Billy spooned it on his second day. There were spoons hidden all over the factory, on 
rafters, in drawers, behind radiators, and so on. They had been hidden in haste by persons 
who had been spooning syrup, who had heard somebody else coming. Spooning was a 
crime. 

On his second day, Billy was cleaning behind a radiator and he found a spoon. To his 
back was a vat of syrup that was cooling. The only other person who could see Billy and 
his spoon was poor old Edgar Derby, who was washing a window outside. The spoon 
was a tablespoon. Billy thrust it into the vat, turned it around and around, making a gooey 
lollipop. He thrust it into his mouth. 

A moment went by, and then every cell in Billy's body shook him with ravenous 
gratitude and applause. 

There were diffident raps at the factory window. Derby was out there, having seen all. 
He wanted some syrup, too. 

So Billy made a lollipop for him. He opened the window. He stuck the lollipop into 
poor old Derby's gaping mouth. A moment passed, and then Derby burst into tears. Billy 
closed the window and hid the sticky spoon. Somebody was coming. 

Eight 

The Americans in the slaughterhouse had a very interesting visitor two days before 
Dresden was destroyed. He was Howard W. Campbell, Jr., an American who had become 
a Nazi. Campbell was the one who had written the monograph about the shabby behavior 



of American prisoners of war. He wasn’t doing more research about prisoners now. He 
had come to the slaughter house to recruit men for a German military unit called ’The 
Free American Corps.' Campbell was the inventor and commander of the unit, which was 
supposed to fight only on the Russian front. 

Campbell was an ordinary looking man, but he was extravagantly costumed in a 
uniform of his own design. He wore a white ten-gallon hat and black cowboy boots 
decorated with swastikas and stars. He was sheathed in a blue body stocking which had 
yellow stripes running from his armpits to his ankles. His shoulder patch was a silhouette 
of Abraham Lincoln's profile on a field of pale green. He had a broad annband which was 
red, with a blue swastika in a circle of white. 

He was explaining this armband now in the cement-block hog bam. 

Billy Pilgrim had a boiling case of heartburn, since he had been spooning malt syrup 
all day long at work. The heartburn brought tears to his eves, so that his image of 
Campbell was distorted by jiggling lenses of salt water. 

'Blue is for the American sky,' Campbell was saying. 'White is for the race that 
pioneered the continent, drained the swamps and cleared the forests and built the roads 
and bridges. Red is for the blood of American patriots which was shed so gladly in years 
gone by.' 

Campbell's audience was sleepy. It had worked hard at the syrup factory, and then it 
had marched a long way home in the cold. It was skinny and hollow-eyed. Its skins were 
beginning to blossom with small sores. So were its mouths and throats and intestines. The 
malt syrup it spooned at the factory contained only a few of the vitamins and minerals 
every Earthling needs. 





Derby spoke movingly of the American form of government, with freedom and justice 
and opportunities and fair play for all. He said there wasn’t a man there who wouldn’t 
gladly die for those ideals. 

He spoke of the brotherhood between the American and the Russian people, and how 
those two nations were going to crush the disease of Nazism, which wanted to infect the 
whole world. 

The air-raid sirens of Dresden howled mournfully. 

The Americans and their guards and Campbell took shelter in an echoing meat locker 
which was hollowed in living rock under the slaughterhouse. There was an iron staircase 
with iron doors at the top and bottom. 

Down in the locker were a few cattle and sheep and pigs, and horses hanging from iron 
hooks. So it goes. The locker had empty hooks for thousands more. It was naturally cool. 
There was no refrigeration. There was candlelight. The locker was whitewashed and 
smelled of carbolic acid. There were benches along a wall. The Americans went to these, 
brushing away flakes of whitewash before they sat down. 

Howard W. Campbell. Jr., remained standing, like the guards. He talked to the guards 
in excellent German. He had written many popular German plays and poems in his time, 
and had married a famous German actress named Resi North. She was dead now, had 
been killed while entertaining troops in the Crimea. So it goes. 

Nothing happened that night. It was the next night that about one hundred and thirty 
thousand people in Dresden would die. So it goes. Billy dozed in the meat locker. He 
found himself engaged again, word for word, gesture for gesture, in the argument with 
his daughter with which this tale begun. 

'Father,' she said, 'What are we going to do with you?' 

And so on. 'You know who I could just kill?' she asked. 

'Who could you kill?' said Billy. 

'That Kilgore Trout.' 

Kilgore Trout was and is a science-fiction writer, of course. Billy has not only read 
dozens of books by Trout-he has also become a friend of Trout, who is a bitter man. 

Trout lives in a rented basement in Ilium, about two miles from Billy's nice white 
home. He himself has no idea how many novels he has written-possibly seventy-five of 
the things. Not one of them has made money. So Trout keeps body and soul together as a 
circulation man for the Ilium Gazette, manages newspaper delivery boys, bullies and 
flatters and cheats little kids. 

Billy met him for the first time in 1964. Billy drove his Cadillac down a back alley in 
Ilium and he found his way blocked by dozens of boys and their bicycles. A meeting was 
in progress. The boys were harangued by a man in a full beard. He was cowardly and 
dangerous, and obviously very good at his job. Trout was sixty-two years old back then. 
He was telling the kids to get off their dead butts and get their daily customers to 
subscribe to the fucking Sunday edition, too. He said that whoever sold the most Sunday 
subscriptions during the next two months would get a free trip for himself and his parents 
to's fucking Vineyard for a week, all expenses paid. 

And so on. 



One of the newspaper boys was actually a newspaper girl. She was electrified. 


Trout's paranoid face was terribly familiar to Billy, who had seen it on the jackets of so 
many books. But., coming upon that face suddenly in a home-town alley, Billy could not 
guess why the face was familiar. Billy thought maybe he had known this cracked messiah 
in Dresden somewhere. Trout certainly looked like a prisoner of war. 
He waited in the car, not appearing to watch as I shut the door behind me without bothering to lock the 
dead-bolt. I walked to the car, pausing shyly before opening the door and stepping in. He was smiling, 
relaxed — and, as usual, perfect and beautiful to an excruciating degree. 

"Good morning." His voice was silky. "How are you today?" His eyes roamed over my face, as if his 
question was something more than simple courtesy. 

"Good, thank you." I was always good — much more than good — when I was near him. 
His gaze lingered on the circles under my eyes. "You look tired." 

"I couldn't sleep," I confessed, automatically swinging my hair around my shoulder to provide some 
measure of cover. 

"Neither could I," he teased as he started the engine. I was becoming used to the quiet purr. I was sure 
the roar of my truck would scare me, whenever I got to drive it again. 

I laughed. "I guess that's right. I suppose I slept just a little bit more than you did." 

"I'd wager you did." 

"So what did you do last night?" I asked. 

He chuckled. "Not a chance. It's my day to ask questions." 

"Oh, that's right. What do you want to know?" My forehead creased. I couldn't imagine anything about 
me that could be in any way interesting to him. 

"What's your favorite color?" he asked, his face grave. 


And then the newspaper girl held up her hand. 'Mr. Trout,’ she said, ’if I win, can I take 
my sister, too?’ 

’Hell no,’ said Kilgore Trout. ’You think money grows on trees?’ 

Trout, incidentally, had written a book about a money tree. It had twenty-dollar bills 
for leaves. Its flowers were government bonds. Its fruit was diamonds. It attracted human 
beings who killed each other around the roots and made very good fertilizer. 

So it goes. 

Billy Pilgrim parked his Cadillac in the alley, and waited for the meeting to end. When 
the meeting broke up, there was still one boy Trout had to deal with. The boy wanted to 
quit because the work was so hard and the hours were so long and the pay was so small. 
Trout was concerned, because, if the boy really quit, Trout would have to deliver the 
boy’s route himself, until he could find another sucker. 

’What are you?’ Trout asked the boy scornfully. ’Some kind of gutless wonder?’ 

This, too, was the title of a book by Trout, The Gutless Wonder. It was about a robot 
who had bad breath, who became popular after his halitosis was cured. But what made 
the story remarkable, since it was written in 1932, was that it predicted the widespread 
use of burning jellied gasoline on human beings. 

It was dropped on them from airplanes. Robots did the dropping. They had no 
conscience, and no circuits which would allow them to imagine what was happening to 
the people on the ground. 

Trout’s leading robot looked like a human being, and could talk and dance and so on, 
and go out with girls. And nobody held it against him that he dropped jellied gasoline on 
people. But they found his halitosis unforgivable. But then he cleared that up, and he was 
welcomed to the human race. 

Trout lost his argument with the boy who wanted to quit. He told the boy about all the 
millionaires who had carried newspapers as boys, and the boy replied: ’Yeah-but I bet 
they quit after a week, it’s such a royal screwing.’ 

And the boy left his full newspaper bag at Trout’s feet, with the customer book on top. 
It was up to Trout to deliver these papers. He didn’t have a car. He didn’t even have a 
bicycle, and he was scared to death of dogs. 

Somewhere a big dog barked. 

As Trout lugubriously slung the bag from his shoulder, Billy Pilgrim approached him. 

’Mr. Trout-’ 

’Yes?’ 

"Are-are you Kilgore Trout? 



'Yes.' Trout supposed that Billy had some complaint about the way his newspapers 
were being delivered. He did not think of himself as a writer for the simple reason that 
the world had never allowed him to think of himself in this way. 

'The-the writer?’ said Billy. 

'The what?' 

Billy was certain that he had made a mistake. 'There's a writer named Kilgore Trout.' 

'There is?' Trout looked foolish and dazed. 

'You never heard of him?' 

Trout shook his head. 'Nobody-nobody ever did.’ 

Billy helped Trout deliver his papers, driving him from house to house in the Cadillac. 
Billy was the responsible one, finding the houses, checking them off. Trout's mind was 
blown. He had never met a fan before, and Billy was such an avid fan. 

Trout told him that he had never seen a book of his advertised, reviewed, or on sale. 
'All these years' he said, 'I've been opening the window and making love to the world.’ 

'You must surely have gotten letters,' said Billy. 'I've felt like writing you letters many 
times.' 

Trout held up a single finger. 'One.' 

'Was it enthusiastic?' 

'It was insane. The writer said I should be President of the World.’ 

It turned out that the person who had written this letter was Elliot Rosewater, Billy's 
friend in the veterans' hospital near Lake Placid. Billy told Trout about Rosewater. 

'My God-I thought he was about fourteen years old,' said Trout. 

"A full grown man-a captain in the war.' 

'The writes like a fourteen-year-old,' said Kilgore Trout. 

Billy invited Trout to his eighteenth wedding anniversary which was only two days 
hence. Now the party was in progress. 

Trout was in Billy's dining room, gobbling canapes. He was talking with a mouthful of 
Philadelphia cream cheese and salmon roe to an optometrist's wife. Everybody at the 
party was associated with optometry in some way, except Trout. And he alone was 
without glasses. He was making a great hit. Everybody was ed to have a real author at the 
party, even though they had never read his books. 

Trout was talking to a Maggie White, who had given up being a dental assistant to 
become a homemaker for an optometrist. She was very pretty. The last book she had read 
was Ivanhoe. 

Billy Pilgrim stood nearby, listening. He was palpating something in his pocket. It was 
a present he was about to give his Wife, a white satin box containing a star sapphire 
cocktail ring. The ring was worth eight hundred dollars. 

The adulation that Trout was receiving, mindless and illiterate as it was, affected Trout 
like marijuana. He was happy and loud and impudent. 

'I'm afraid I don’t read as much as I ought to,' said Maggie. 

'We're all afraid of something,' Trout replied. 'I'm afraid of cancer and rats and 
Doberman pinschers.' 



'I should know, but I don't, so I have to ask,' said Maggie, 'what's the most famous 
thing you ever wrote?’ 

'It was about a funeral for a great French chef.' 

'That sounds interesting.’ 

'All the great chefs in the world are there. It's a beautiful ceremony.’ Trout was making 
this up as he went along. 'Just before the casket is closed, the mourners sprinkle parsley 
and paprika on the deceased.’ So it goes. 

'Did that really happen?’ said Maggie White. She was a dull person, but a sensational 
invitation to make babies. Men looked at her and wanted to fill her up with babies right 
away. She hadn’t had even one baby yet. She used birth control. 

'Of course it happened,’ Trout told her. 'If I wrote something that hadn’t really 
happened, and I tried to sell it, I could go to jail. That’s fraud!’ 

Maggie believed him. 'I'd never thought about that before.' 

'Think about it now.' 

'It's like advertising. You have to tell the truth in advertising, or you get in trouble.’ 

'Exactly. The same body of laws applies.’ 

'Do you think you might put us in a book sometime?' 

'I put everything that happens to me in books.’ 

'I guess I better be careful what I say.’ 

'That's right. And I'm not the only one who's listening. God is listening, too. And on 
Judgment Day he's going to tell you all the things you said and did. If it turns out they're 
bad things instead of good things, that's too bad for you, because you'll bum forever and 
ever. The burning never stops hurting.’ 

Poor Maggie turned gray. She believed that too, and was petrified. 

Kilgore Trout laughed uproariously. A salmon egg flew out of his mouth and landed in 
Maggie's cleavage. 

Now an optometrist called for attention. He proposed a toast to Billy and Valencia, 
whose anniversary it was. According to plan, the barbershop quartet of optometrists, 'The 
Febs,' sang while people drank and Billy and Valencia put their arms around each other, 
just glowed. Everybody's eyes were shining. The song was 'That Old Gang of Mine.’ 

Gee, that song went, but I’d give the world to see that old gang of mine. And so on. A 
little later it said. So long forever, old fellows and gals, so long forever old sweethearts 
and pals-God bless 'em-And so on. 

Unexpectedly, Billy Pilgrim found himself upset by the song and the occasion. He had 
never had an old gang, old sweethearts and pals, but he missed one anyway, as the quartet 
made slow, agonized experiments with chords-chords intentionally sour, sourer still, 
unbearably sour, and then a chord that was suffocatingly sweet, and then some sour ones 
again. Billy had powerful psychosomatic responses to the changing chords. His mouth 
filled with the taste of lemonade, and his face became grotesque, as though he really were 
being stretched on the torture engine called the rack. 

He looked so peculiar that several people commented on it solicitously when the song 
was done. They thought he might have been having a heart attack, and Billy seemed to 
confirm this by going to a chair and sitting down haggardly. 



There was silence. 

’Oh my God,’ said Valencia, leaning over him, ’Billy-are you all right?' 

’Yes.’ 

'You look so awful.’ 

'Really-I'm O.K.’ And he was, too, except that he could find no explanation for why the 
song had affected him so grotesquely. He had supposed for years that he had no secrets 
from himself. Here was proof that he had a great big secret somewhere inside, and he 
could not imagine what it was. 

People drifted away now, seeing the color return to Billy's cheeks, seeing him smile. 
Valencia stayed with him, and Kilgore Trout, who had been on the fringe of the crowd, 
came closer, interested, shrewd. 

'You looked as though you'd seen a ghost,' said Valencia. 

'No,' said Billy. He hadn’t seen anything but what was really before him-the faces of 
the four singers, those four ordinary men, cow-eyed and mindless and anguished as they 
went from sweetness to sourness to sweetness again. 

'Can I make a guess?' said Kilgore Trout 'You saw through a time window.' 

'A what?' said Valencia. 

'He suddenly saw the past or the future. Am I right?' 

'No,' said Billy Pilgrim. He got up, put a hand into his pocket, found the box containing 
the ring in there. He took out the box, gave it absently to Valencia. He had meant to give 
it to her at the end of the song, while everybody was watching. Only Kilgore Trout was 
there to see. 

'For me?' said Valencia. 

'Yes’ 

"Oh my God, she said. Then she said it louder, so other people heard. They gathered 
around, and she opened it, and she almost screamed when she saw the sapphire with a 
star in it. 'Oh my God,' she said. She gave Billy a big kiss. She said, 'Thank you, thank 
you, thank you.' 

There was a lot of talk about what wonderful jewelry Billy had given to Valencia over 
the years. 'My God,’ said Maggie White, 'she's already got the biggest diamond I ever saw 
outside of a movie.' She was talking about the diamond Billy had brought back from the 
war. 

The partial denture he had found inside his little impresario's coat, incidentally, was in 
his cufflinks box in his dresser drawer. Billy had a wonderful collection of cufflinks. It 
was the custom of the family to give him cufflinks on every Father's Day. He was 
wearing Father's Day cufflinks now. They had cost over one hundred dollars. They were 
made out of ancient Roman coins. He had one pair of cufflinks upstairs which were little 
roulette wheels that really worked. He had another pair which had a real thermometer in 
one and a real compass in the other. 

Billy now moved about the party-outwardly nonnal. Kilgore Trout was shadowing 
him, keen to know what Billy had suspected or seen. Most of Trout's novels, after all, 
dealt with time warps and extrasensory perception and other unexpected things. Trout 
believed in things like that, was greedy to have their existence proved. 



'You ever put a full-length mirror on the floor, and then have a dog stand on it?’ Trout 
asked Billy. 

’No.’ 

'The dog will look down, and all of a sudden he’ll realize there’s nothing under him. He 
thinks he's standing on thin air. He'll jump a mile.’ 

'He will?’ 

That’s how you looked-as though you all of a sudden realized you were standing on 
thin air.’ 

The barbershop quartet sang again. Billy was emotionally racked again. The 
experience was definitely associated with those four men and not what they sang. 

Here is what they sang, while Billy was pulled apart inside: 

'Leven cent cotton, forty cent meat, 

How in the world can a poor man eat? 

Pray for the sunshine, 'cause it will rain. 

Things gettin’ worse, drivin’ all insane; 

Built a nice bar, painted it brown 
Lightnin’ came along and burnt it down: 

No use talkin’ any man’s beat, 

With 'leven cent cotton and forty cent meat. 

'Leven cent cotton, a car-load of tax, 

The load's too heavy for our poor backs... 

And so on. 

Billy fled upstairs in his nice white home. 

Trout would have come upstairs with him if Billy hadn’t told him not to. Then Billy 
went into the upstairs bathroom, which was dark He closed and locked the door. He left it 
dark, and gradually became aware that he was not alone. His son was in there. 

'Dad?' his son said in the dark. Robert, the future Green Beret, was seventeen then. 
Billy liked him, but didn’t know him very well. Billy couldn’t help suspecting that there 
wasn’t much to know about Robert. 

Billy flicked on the light. Robert was sitting on the toilet with his pajama bottoms 
around his ankles. He was wearing an electric guitar, slung around his neck on a strap. He 
had just bought the guitar that day. He couldn’t play it yet and, in fact, never learned to 
play it. It was a nacreous pink. 

'Hello, son,' said Billy Pilgrim. 

Billy went into his bedroom, even though there were guests to be entertained 
downstairs. He lay down on his bed, turned on the Magic Fingers. The mattress trembled, 
drove a dog out from under the bed. The dog was Spot. Good old Spot was still alive in 
those days. Spot lay down again in a comer. 

Billy thought hard about the effect the quartet had had on him, and then found an 
association with an experience he had had long ago. He did not travel in time to the 
experience. He remembered it shimmeringly-as follows: 



He was down in the meat locker on the night that Dresden was destroyed. There were 
sounds like giant footsteps above. Those were sticks of high-explosive bombs. The giants 
walked and walked. The meat locker was a very safe shelter. All that happened down 
there was an occasional shower of calcimine. The Americans and four of their guards and 
a few dressed carcasses were down there, and nobody else. The rest of the guards had, 
before the raid began, gone to the comforts of their own homes in Dresden. They were all 
being killed with their families. 

So it goes. 

The girls that Billy had seen naked were all being killed, too, in a much shallower 
shelter in another part of the stockyards. 

So it goes. 

A guard would go to the head of the stairs every so often to see what it was like 
outside, then he would come down and whisper to the other guards. There was a fire¬ 
storm out there. Dresden was one big flame. The one flame ate everything organic, 
everything that would burn. 

It wasn’t safe to come out of the shelter until noon the next day. When the Americans 
and their guards did come out, the sky was black with smoke. The sun was an angry little 
pinhead. Dresden was like the moon now nothing but minerals. The stones were hot. 
Everybody else in the neighborhood was dead. 

So it goes. 

The guards drew together instinctively, rolled their eyes. They experimented with one 
expression and then another, said nothing, though their mouths were often open. They 
looked like a silent film of a barbershop quartet. 

'So long forever,' they might have been singing, ’old fellows and pals; So long forever, 
old sweethearts and pals-God bless ’em-’ 

'Tell me a story,’ Montana Wildhack said to Billy Pilgrim in the Tralfamadorian zoo 
one time. They were in bed side by side. They had privacy. The canopy covered the 
dome. Montana was six months pregnant now, big and rosy, lazily demanding small 
favors from Billy from time to time. She couldn’t send Billy out for ice cream or 
strawberries, since the atmosphere outside the dome was cyanide, and the nearest 
strawberries and ice cream were millions of light years away. 

She could send him to the refrigerator, which was decorated with the blank couple on 
the bicycle built for two-or, as now she could wheedle, ’Tell me a story, Billy boy.’ 

’Dresden was destroyed on the night of February 13, 1945,’ Billy Pilgrim began. ’We 
came out of our shelter the next day.’ He told Montana about the four guards who, in their 
astonishment and grief, resembled a barber-shop quartet. He told her about the stockyards 
with all the fenceposts gone, with roofs and windows gone-told her about seeing little 
logs lying around. These were people who had been caught in the firestonn. So it goes. 

Billy told her what had happened to the buildings that used to form cliffs around the 
stockyards. They had collapsed. Their wood had been consumed, and their stones had 
crashed down, had tumbled against one another until they locked at last in low and 
graceful curves. 

’It was like the moon,’ said Billy Pilgrim. 



The guards told the Americans to fonn in ranks of four, which they did. Then they had 
them march back to the hog barn which had, been their home. Its wars still stood, but its 
windows and roof were gone, and there was nothing inside but ashes and dollops of 
melted glass. It was realized then that there was no food or water, and that the survivors, 
if they were going to continue to survive, were going to have to climb over curve after 
curve on the face of the moon. 

Which they did. 

The curves were smooth only when seen from a distance. The people climbing them 
learned that they were treacherous, jagged things-hot to the touch, often unstable eager, 
should certain important rocks be disturbed, to tumble some more, to form lower, more 
solid curves. 

Nobody talked much as the expedition crossed the moon. There was nothing 
appropriate to say. One thing was clear: Absolutely everybody in the city was supposed 
to be dead, regardless of what they were, and that anybody that moved in it represented a 
flaw in the design. There were to be no moon men at all. 

American fighter planes came in under the smoke to see if anything was moving. They 
saw Billy and the rest moving down there. The planes sprayed them with machine-gun 
bullets, but the bullets missed. Then they saw some other people moving down by the 
riverside and they shot at them. They hit some of them. So it goes. 

The idea was to hasten the end of the war. 

Billy's story ended very curiously in a suburb untouched by fire and explosions. The 
guards and the Americans came at nightfall to an inn which was open for business. There 
was candlelight. There were fires in three fireplaces downstairs. There were empty tables 
and chairs waiting for anyone who might come, and empty beds with covers turned down 
upstairs. 

There was a blind innkeeper and his sighted wife, who was the cook, and their two 
young daughters, who worked as waitresses and maids. This family knew that Dresden 
was gone. Those with eyes had seen it bum and bum, understood that they were on the 
edge of a desert now. Still-they had opened for business, had polished the glasses and 
wound the clocks and stirred the fires, and waited and waited to see who would come. 

There was no great flow of refugees from Dresden. The clocks ticked on, the crackled, 
the translucent candles dripped. And then there was a knock on the door, and in came 
four guards and one hundred American prisoners of war. 

The innkeeper asked the guards if they had come from the city. 

'Yes.' 

Are there more people coming?' 

And the guards said that, on the difficult route they had chosen, they had not seen 
another living soul. 

The blind innkeeper said that the Americans could sleep in his stable that night, and he 
gave them soup and ersatz coffee and a little beer. Then he came out to the stable to listen 
to them bedding down in the straw. 

'Good night, Americans,' he said in German. 'Sleep well.’ 



Nine 


Here is how Billy Pilgrim lost his wife, Valencia. 

He was unconscious in the hospital in Vermont, after the airplane crash on Sugarbush 
Mountain, and Valencia, having heard about the crash, was driving from Ilium to the 
hospital in the family Cadillac El Dorado Coupe de Ville. Valencia was hysterical, 
because she had been told frankly that Billy might die, or that, if he lived, he might be a 
vegetable. 

Valencia adored Billy. She was crying and yelping so hard as she drove that she 
missed the correct turnoff from the throughway. She applied her power brakes, and a 
Mercedes slammed into her from behind. Nobody was hurt, thank God, because both 
drivers were wearing seat belts. Thank God, thank God. The Mercedes lost only a 
headlight. But the rear end of the Cadillac was a body-and-fender man’s wet dream. The 
trunk and fenders were collapsed. The gaping tru nk looked like the mouth of a village 
idiot who 'was explaining that he didn't know anything about anything. The fenders 
shrugged. The bumper was at a high port arms. 'Reagan for President!' a sticker on the 
bumper said. The back window was veined with cracks. The exhaust system rested on the 
pavement. 

The driver of the Mercedes got out and went to Valencia, to find out if she was all 
right. She blabbed hysterically about Billy and the airplane crash, and then she put her car 
in gear and crossed the median divider, leaving her exhaust system behind. 

When she arrived at the hospital, people rushed to the windows to see what all the 
noise was. The Cadillac, with both mufflers gone, sounded like a heavy bomber coming 
in on a wing and a prayer. Valencia turned off the engine, but then she slumped against 
the steering wheel, and the horn brayed steadily. A doctor and a nurse ran out to find out 
what the trouble was. Poor Valencia was unconscious, overcome by carbon monoxide. 
She was a heavenly azure. 

One hour later she was dead. So it goes. 

Billy knew nothing about it. He, dreamed on, and traveled in time and so forth. The 
hospital was so crowded that Billy couldn’t have a room to himself He shared a room 
with a Harvard history professor named Bertram Copeland Rumfoord. Rumfoord didn’t 
have to look at Billy, because Billy was surrounded by white linen screens on rubber 
wheels. But Rumfoord could hear Billy talking to himself from time to time. 

Rumfoord's left leg was in traction. He had broken it while skiing. He was seventy 
years old, but had the body and spirit of a man half that age. He had been honeymooning 
with his fifth wife when he broke his leg. Her name was Lily. Lily was twenty-three. 

Just about the time poor Valencia was pronounced dead, Lily came into Billy's and 
Rumfoord's room with an armload of books. Rumfoord had sent her down to Boston to 
get them. He was working on a one-volume history of the United States Army Air Corps 
in the Second World War. The books were about bombings and sky battles that had 
happened before Lily was even bom. 



'You guys go on without me,' said Billy Pilgrim deliriously, as pretty little Lily came 
in. She had been an a-go-go girl when Rumfoord saw her and resolved to make her his 
own. She was a high school dropout. Her I.Q. was 103. 'He scares me,' she whispered to 
her husband about Billy Pilgrim. 

'He bores the hell out of me!' Rumfoord replied boomingly. 'All he does in his sleep is 
quit and surrender and apologize and ask to be left alone.' Rumfoord was a retired 
brigadier general in the Air Force Reserve, the official Air Force Historian, a fun 
professor, the author of twenty-six books, a multimillionaire since birth, and one of the 
great competitive sailors of all time. His most popular book was about sex and strenuous 
athletics for men over sixty-five. Now he quoted Theodore Roosevelt whom he 
resembled a lot: 

"'I could carve a better man out of a banana."’ 

One of the things Rumfoord had told Lily to get in Boston was a copy of President 
Harry S. Truman's announcement to the world that an atomic bomb had been dropped on 
Hiroshima. She had a Xerox of it, and Rumfoord asked her if she had read it. 

'No.' She didn’t read well, which was one of the reasons she had dropped out of high 
school. 

Rumfoord ordered her to sit down and read the Truman statement now. He didn’t know 
that she couldn’t read much. He knew very little about her, except that she was one more 
public demonstration that he was a superman. 

So Lily sat down and pretended to read the Truman thing, which went like this: 

Sixteen hours ago an American airplane dropped one bomb on Hiroshima, an 
important Japanese Anny base. That bomb had more power than 20,000 tons of T.N.T. It 
had more than two thousand times the blast power of the British 'Grand Slam’ which is 
the largest bomb ever yet used in the history of warfare. 

The Japanese began the war from the air at Pearl Harbor. They have been repaid many- 
fold. And the end is not yet. With this bomb we have now added a new and revolutionary 
increase in destruction to supplement the growing power of our armed forces. In their 
present form these bombs are now in production, and even more powerful forms are in 
development. 

It is an atomic bomb. It is a harnessing of the basic power of the universe. The force 
from which the sun draws its power has been loosed against those who brought war to the 
Far East. 

Before 1939, it was the accepted belief of scientists that it was theoretically possible to 
release atomic energy. But nobody knew any practical method of doing it. By 1942, 
however, we knew that the Germans were working feverishly to find a way to add atomic 
energy to all the other engines of war with which they hoped to enslave the world. But 
they failed. We may be grateful to Providence that the Gennans got the V-l's and V-2's 
late and in limited quantities and even more grateful that they did not get the atomic 
bomb at all. 

The battle of the laboratories held-fateful risks for us as well as the battles of the air, 
land and sea, and we have now won the battle of the laboratories as we have won the 
other battles. 

We are now prepared to obliterate more rapidly and completely every productive 
enterprise the Japanese have above ground in any city, said Harry Truman. We shall 



destroy their docks, their factories and their communications. Let there be no mistake; we 
shall completely destroy Japan's power to make war. It was to spare- 

And so on. 

One of the books that Lily had brought Rumfoord was The Destruction of Dresden by 
an Englishman named David Irving. It was an American edition, published by Holt., 
Rinehart and Winston in 1964. What Rumfoord wanted from it were, portions of the 
forewords by his friends Ira C. Eaker, Lieutenant General, U.S.A.F., retired, and British 
Air Marshal Sir Robert Saundby, K.C.B., K.B.E., M.C., D.F.C., A.F.C. 

I find it difficult to understand Englishmen or Americans .who weep about enemy 
civilians who were killed but who have not shed a tear for our gallant crews lost in 
combat with a cruel enemy, wrote his friend General Eaker in part. I think it would have 
been well for Mr. Irving to have remembered, when he was drawing the frightful picture 
of the civilian killed at Dresden, that V-l's and V-2's were at that very time failing on 
England, killing civilian men, women and children indiscriminately, as they were 
designed and launched to do. It might be well to remember Buchenwald and Coventry, 
too 

Eaker's foreword ended this way 

I deeply regret that British and U.S. bombers killed 135,000 people in the attack on 
Dresden, but I remember who started the last war and I regret even more the -loss of 
more than 5,000,000, Allied lives in the necessary effort to completely defeat and utterly 
destroy nazism. 

So it goes. 

What Air Marshal Saundby said, among other things, was this 

That the bombing of Dresden was a great tragedy none can deny. That it was really a 
military necessity few, after reading this book, will believe. It was one of those terrible 
things that sometimes happen in wartime, brought about by an unfortunate combination 
of circumstances. Those who approved it were neither wicked no?, cruel, though it may 
well be that they were too remote from the harsh realities of war to understand fully the 
appalling destructive power of air bombardment in the spring of 1945 

The advocates of nuclear disarmament seem to believe that, if they could achieve their 
aim., war would become tolerable and decent. They would do well to read this book and 
ponder the fate of Dresden, where 135,000 people died as the result of an at attack with 
conventional weapons. On the night of March 9th, 1945, an air attack on Tokyo by 
American heavy bombers, using incendiary and high explosive bombs, caused the death 
of 83,793 people. The atom bomb dropped on Hiroshima killed 71,379 people. 

So it goes. 

'If you're ever in Cody, Wyoming,' said Billy Pilgrim behind his white linen screens, 
'just ask for Wild Bob.’ 

Lily Rumfoord shuddered, went on pretending to read the Harry Truman thing. 

Billy's daughter Barbara came in later that day. She was all doped up, had the same 
glassy-eyed look that poor old Edgar Derby wore just before he was shot in Dresden. 
Doctors had given her pills so she could continue to function, even though her father was 
broken and her mother was dead. 

So it goes. 



She was accompanied by a doctor and a nurse. Her brother Robert was flying home 
from a battlefield in Vietnam. 'Daddy,' she said tentatively. 'Daddy? ’ 

But Billy was ten years away, back in 1958. He was examining the eyes of a young 
male Mongolian idiot in order to prescribe corrective lenses. The idiot's mother was 
there, acting as an interpreter. 

'How many dots do you see?' Billy Pilgrim asked him. 

And then Billy traveled in time to when he was sixteen years old, in the waiting room 
of a doctor. Billy had an infected thumb. There was only one other patient waiting-an old, 
old man. The old man was in agony because of gas. He farted tremendously, and then he 
belched. 

'Excuse me,’ he said to Billy. Then he did it again. 'Oh God he said, 'I knew it was 
going to be bad getting old.’ He shook his head. 'I didn’t know it was going to be this bad.’ 

Billy Pilgrim opened his eyes in the hospital in Vermont, did not know where he was. 
Watching him was his son Robert. Robert was wearing the uniform of the famous Green 
Berets. Robert's hair was short, was wheat-colored bristles. Robert was clean and neat. 

He was decorated with a Purple Heart and a Silver Star and a Bronze Star with two 
clusters. 

This was a boy who had flu nk ed out of high school, who had been an alcoholic at 
sixteen, who had run with a rotten bunch of kids, who had been arrested for tipping over 
hundreds of tombstones in a Catholic cemetery one time. He was all straightened out 
now. His posture was wonderful and his shoes were shined and his trousers were pressed, 
and he was a leader of men. 

'Dad?' 

Billy Pilgrim closed his eyes again. 

Billy had to miss his wife's funeral because he was still so sick. He was conscious, 
though, while Valencia was being put into the ground in Ilium. Billy hadn’t said much 
since regaining consciousness, hadn’t responded very elaborately to the news of 
Valencia's death and Robert's coming home from the war and so on-so it was generally 
believed that he was a vegetable. There was talk of performing an operation on him later, 
one which might improve the circulation of blood to his brain. 

Actually, Billy's outward listlessness was a screen. The listlessness concealed a mind 
which was fizzing and flashing thrillingly. It was preparing letters and lectures about the 
flying saucers, the negligibility of death and the true nature of time. 

Professor Rumfoord said frightful things about Billy within Billy's hearing, confident 
that Billy no longer had any brain at all. 'Why don’t they let him die?’ he asked Lily. 

'I don’t know, she said. 

'That's not a human being anymore. Doctors are for human beings. They should turn 
him over to a veterinarian or a tree surgeon. They'd know what to do. Look at him! That's 
life, according to the medical profession. Isn’t life wonderful?' 

'I don’t know,' said Lily. 



Rumfoord talked to Lily about the bombing of Dresden one time, and Billy heard it all. 
Rumfoord had a problem about Dresden. His one-volume history of the Army Air Force 
in the Second World War was supposed to be a readable condensation of the twenty- 
seven-volume Official History of the Army Air Force in World War Two. The thing was, 
though, there was almost nothing in the twenty-seven volumes about the Dresden raid, 
even though it had been such a howling success. The extent of the success had been kept 
a secret for many years after the war-a secret from the American people. It was no secret 
from the Germans, of course, or from the Russians, who occupied Dresden after the war, 
who are in Dresden still. 

’Americans have finally heard about Dresden.,' said Rumfoord, twenty-three years after 
the raid. 'A lot of them know now how much worse it was than Hiroshima. So I've got to 
put something about it in my book. From the official Air Force standpoint., it'll all be 
new.' 

'Why would they keep it a secret so long?' said Lily. 

'For fear that a lot of bleeding hearts' said Rumfoord, 'might not think it was such a 
wonderful thing to do.’ 

It was now that Billy Pilgrim spoke up intelligently. 'I was there' he said. 

It was difficult for Rumfoord to take Billy seriously, since Rumfoord, had so long 
considered Billy a repulsive non-person who would be much better off dead. Now, with 
Billy speaking clearly and to the point, Rumfoord's ears wanted to treat the words as a 
foreign language that was not worth learning, did he say?' said Rumfoord. 

Lily had to serve as an 'interpreter. 'He said he was there.’ she explained. 

'He was where? 

'I don’t know,' said Lily. 'Where were you?' she asked Billy. 

'Dresden' said Billy. 

'Dresden,' Lily told Rumfoord. 

'He's simply echoing things we say,' said Rumfoord. 

'Oh, ’ said Lily. 

'He's got echolalia now.' 

’Oh.’ 

Echolalia is a mental disease which makes people immediately repeat things that well 
people around them say. But Billy didn’t really have it. Rumfoord simply insisted, for his 
own comfort, that Billy had it. Rumfoord was thinking in a military manner: that an 
inconvenient person, one whose death he wished for very much, for practical reasons, 
was suffering from a repulsive disease. 

Rumfoord went on insisting for several hours that Billy had echolalia-told nurses and a 
doctor that Billy had echolalia now. Some experiments were performed on Billy. Doctors 
and nurses tried to get Billy to echo something, but Billy wouldn’t make a sound for 
them. 

'He isn’t doing it now,' said Rumfoord peevishly. 'The minute you go away, he’ll start 
doing it again.’ 

Nobody took Rumfoord’s diagnosis seriously. The staff thought Rumfoord was a 
hateful old man, conceited and cruel. He often said to them, in one way or another, that 



people who were weak deserved to die. Whereas the staff, of course, was devoted to the 
idea that weak people should be helped as much as possible, that nobody should die. 

There in the hospital, Billy was having an adventure very common among people 
without power in time of war: He was trying to prove to a wilfully deaf and blind enemy 
that he was interesting to hear and see. He kept silent until the lights went' out at night, 
and then, when there had been a long silence containing nothing to echo, he said to 
Rumfoord, 'I was in Dresden when it was bombed. I was a prisoner of war.’ Rumfoord 
sighed impatiently. 

'Word of honor.,' said Billy Pilgrim. 'Do you believe me?' 

'Must we talk about it now?' said Rumfoord. He had heard. He didn't believe. 

'We don't ever have to talk about it,' said Billy. 'I just want you to know: I was there.’ 

Nothing more was said about Dresden that night, and Billy closed his eyes, traveled in 
time to a May afternoon, two days after the end of the Second World War in Europe. 
Billy and five other American prisoners were riding in a coffin-shaped green wagon, 
which they had found abandoned complete with two horses, in a suburb of Dresden. Now 
they were being drawn by the clop-clop-clopping horses down narrow lanes which had 
been cleared through the moonlike ruins. They were going back to the slaughterhouse for 
souvenirs of the war. Billy was reminded of the sounds of milkmen's horses early in the 
morning in Ilium, when he was a boy. 

Billy sat in the back of the jiggling coffin. His head was tilted back and his nostrils 
were flaring. He was happy. He was warm. There was food in the wagon, and wine-and a 
camera, and a stamp collection, and a stuffed owl, and a mantel clock that ran on changes 
of barometric pressure. The Americans had gone into empty houses in the suburb where 
they had been imprisoned, and they had taken these and many other things. 

The owners, hearing that the Russians were coming, killing and robbing and raping 
and burning, had fled. 

But the Russians hadn’t come yet, even two days after the war. It was peaceful in the 
ruins. Billy saw only one other person on the way to the slaughterhouse. It was an old 
man pushing a baby buggy. In the buggy were pots and cups and an umbrella frame, and 
other things he had found. 

Billy stayed in the wagon when it reached the slaughterhouse, sunning himself. The 
others went looking for souvenirs. Later on in life, the Tralfamadorians would advise 
Billy to concentrate on the happy moments of his life, and to ignore the unhappy ones-to 
stare only at pretty things as eternity failed to go by. If this sort of selectivity had been 
possible for Billy, he might have chosen as his happiest moment his sun-drenched snooze 
in the back of the wagon. 

Billy Pilgrim was armed as he snoozed. It was the first time he had been armed since 
basic training. His companions had insisted that he arm himself, since God only knew 
what sorts of killers might be in burrows on the face of the moon-wild dogs, packs of rats 
fattened on corpses, escaped maniacs and murderers, soldiers who would never quit 
killing until they themselves were killed. 



Billy had a tremendous cavalry pistol in his belt. It was a relic of the First World War. 

It had a ring in its butt. It was loaded with bullets the size of robins' eggs. Billy had found 
it in the bedside table in a house. That was one of the things about the end of the war: 
Absolutely anybody who wanted a weapon could have one. They were lying all around. 
Billy had a saber, too. It was a Luftwaffe ceremonial saber. Its hilt was stamped with a 
screaming eagle. The eagle was carrying a swastika and looking down. Billy found it 
stuck into a telephone pole. He had pulled it out of the pole as the wagon went by. 

Now his snoozing became shallower as be heard a man and a woman speaking German 
in pitying tones. The speakers were commiserating with somebody lyrically. Before Billy 
opened his eyes, it seemed to him that the tones might have been those used by the 
friends of Jesus when they took His ruined body down from His cross. So it goes. 

Billy opened his eyes. A middle-aged man and wife were crooning to the horses. They 
were noticing what the Americans had not noticed-that the horses’ mouths were bleeding, 
gashed by the bits, that the horses' hooves were broken, so that every step meant agony, 
that the horses were insane with thirst. The Americans had treated their form of 
transportation as though it were no more sensitive than a six-cylinder Chevrolet. 

"What does that mean?" My voice quavered, and I fought to control it. "That he hasn't called yet?" 

"It just means that they don't have anything to tell us." 

But her voice was too even, and the air was harder to breathe. 

Jasper was suddenly beside Alice, closer to me than usual. 

"Bella," he said in a suspiciously soothing voice. "You have nothing to worry about. You are completely 
safe here." 

"I know that." 

"Then why are you frightened?" he asked, confused. He might feel the tenor of my emotions, but he 
couldn't read the reasons behind them. 

"You heard what Laurent said." My voice was just a whisper, but I was sure they could hear me. "He 
said James was lethal. What if something goes wrong, and they get separated? If something happens to 
any of them, Carlisle, Emmett. . . Edward. . . " I gulped. "If that wild female hurts Esme. . . " My voice had 
grown higher, a note of hysteria beginning to rise in it. "How could I live with myself when it's my fault? 
None of you should be risking yourselves for me — " 

"Bella, Bella, stop," he interrupted me, his words pouring out so quickly they were hard to understand. 
"You're worrying about all the wrong things, Bella. Trust me on this — none of us are in jeopardy. You 


These two horse pitiers moved back along the wagon to where they could gaze in 
patronizing reproach at Billy-at Billy Pilgrim, who was so long and weak, so ridiculous in 
his azure toga and silver shoes. They weren’t afraid of him. They weren't afraid of 
anything. They were doctors, both obstetricians. They had been delivering babies until 
the hospitals were all burned down. Now they were picnicking near where their 
apartment used to be. 

The woman was softly beautiful, translucent from having eaten potatoes for so long. 
The man wore a business suit, necktie and all. Potatoes had made him gaunt. He was as 
tall as Billy, wore steel-rimmed tri-focals. This couple, so involved with babies, had 
never reproduced themselves, though they could have. This was an interesting comment 
on the whole idea of reproduction. 

They had nine languages between them. They tried Polish on Billy Pilgrim first, since 
he was dressed so clownishly, since the wretched Poles were the involuntary clowns of 
the Second World War. 

Billy asked them in English what it was they wanted, and they at once scolded him in 
English for the condition of the horses. They made Billy get out of the wagon and come 
look at the horses. When Billy saw the condition of his means of transportation, he burst 
into tears. He hadn't cried about anything else in the war. 

Later on, as a middle-aged optometrist, he would weep quietly and privately 
sometimes, but never make loud boo-hoo-ing noises. 

Which is why the epigraph of this book is the quatrain from the famous Christmas 
carol. Billy cried very little, though he often saw things worth crying about, and in that 
respect, at least, he resembled the Christ of the Carol: 

The cattle are lowing, 

The Baby awakes. 

But the little Lord Jesus 
No crying He makes. 



Billy traveled in time back to the hospital in Vennont. Breakfast had been eaten and 
cleared away and Professor Rumfoord was reluctantly becoming interested in Billy as a 
human being. Rumfoord questioned Billy gruffly, satisfied himself that Billy really had 
been in Dresden. He asked Billy what it had been like, and Billy told him about the 
horses and the couple picnicking on the moon. 

The story ended this way,. Billy and the doctors unharnessed the horses, but the horses 
wouldn't go anywhere. Their feet hurt too much. And then Russians came on 
motorcycles, and they arrested everybody but the horses. 

Two days after that, Billy was turned over to the Americans, who shipped him home 
on a very slow freighter called the Lucretia A. Mott. Lucretia A. Mott was a famous 
American suffragette. She was dead. So it goes. 

'It had to be done,’ Rumfoord told Billy, speaking of the destruction of Dresden. 

’I know,’ said Billy. 

’That’s war.’ 

'I know. I’m not complaining.’ 

’It must have been hell on the ground.’ 

’It was,’ said Billy Pilgrim. 

Pity the men who had to do it.’ 

"I do.’ 



It was a chilly night, and Billy came indoors after a while, closed the French doors. 
Closing those doors reminded him of his honeymoon. There had been French doors on 
the Cape Ann love nest of his honeymoon, still were, always would be. 

Billy turned on his television set checking its channel selector around and around. He 
was looking for programs on which he might be allowed to appear. But it was too early in 



the evening for programs that allowed people with peculiar opinions to speak out. It was 
only a little after eight o'clock, so all the shows were about silliness or murder. So it goes. 


Billy left his room, went down the slow elevator, walked over to Times Square, looked 
into the window of a tawdry bookstore. In the window were hundreds of books about 
fucking and buggery and murder, and a street guide to New York City, and a model of 
the Statue of Liberty with a thermometer on it. Also in the window, speckled with soot 
and fly shit, were four paperback novels by Billy's friend, Kilgore Trout. 

The news of the day, meanwhile, was being written in a ribbon of lights on a building 
to Billy's back. The window reflected the news. It was about power and sports and anger 
and death. So it goes. 

Billy went into the bookstore. 

A sign in there said that adults only were allowed in the back. There were peep shows 
in the back that showed movies of young women and men with no clothes on. It cost a 
quarter to look into a machine for one minute. There were still photographs of naked 
young people for sale back there, too. You could take those home. The stills were a lot 
more Tralfamadorian than the movies, since you could look at them whenever you 
wanted to, and they wouldn’t change. Twenty years in the future, those girls would still 
be young, would still be smiling or smoldering or simply looking stupid, with their legs 
wide open. Some of them were eating lollipops or bananas. They would still be eating 
those. And the peckers of the young men would still be semi-erect, and their muscles 
would be bulging like cannonballs. 

But Billy Pilgrim wasn’t beguiled by the back of the store. He was thrilled by the 
Kilgore Trout novels in the front. The tides were all new to him, or he thought they were. 
Now he opened one. It seemed all right for him to do that. Everybody else in the store 
was pawing things. The name of the book was The Big Board. He got a few paragraphs 
into it, and then realized that he had read it before-years ago, in the veterans’ hospital. It 
was about an Earthling man and woman who were kidnapped by extra-terrestrials. They 
were put on display in a zoo on a planet called Zircon-212. 

These fictitious people in the zoo had a big board supposedly showing stock market, 
quotations and commodity prices along one wall of their habitat, and a news ticker, and a 
telephone that was supposedly connected to a brokerage on Earth. The creatures on 
Zircon-212 told their captives that they had invested a million dollars for them back on 
Earth, and that it was up to the captives to manage it so that they would be fabulously 
wealthy when they returned to Earth. 

The telephone and the big board and the ticker were all fakes, of -course. They were 
simply stimulants to make the Earthlings perfonn vividly for the crowds at the zoo- to 
make them jump up and down and cheer, or gloat, or sulk, or tear their hair, to be scared 
shitless or to feel as contented as babies in their mothers' arms. 

The Earthlings did very well on paper. That was part of the rigging, of course. And 
religion got mixed up in it, too. The news ticker reminded them that the President of the 
United States had declared National Prayer Week, and that everybody should pray. The 
Earthlings had had a bad week on the market before that. They had lost a small fortune in 
olive oil futures. So they gave praying a whirl. 



It worked. Olive oil went up. 


Another Kilgore Trout book there in the window was about a man who built a time 
machine so he could go back and see Jesus. It worked, and he saw Jesus when Jesus was 
only twelve years old. Jesus was learning the carpentry trade from his father. 

Two Roman soldiers came into the shop with a mechanical drawing on papyrus of a 
device they wanted built by sunrise the next morning. It was a cross to be used in the 
execution of a rabble-rouser. 

Jesus and his father built it. They were glad to have the work. And the rabble-rouser 
was executed on it. 

So it goes. 

The bookstore was run by seeming quintuplets, by five short, bald men chewing unfit 
cigars that were sopping wet. They never smiled, and each one had a stool to perch on. 
They were making money running a paper-and-celluloid whorehouse. 

They didn’t have hard-ons. Neither did Billy Pilgrim. Everybody else did. It was a 
ridiculous store, all about love and babies. 

The clerks occasionally told somebody to buy or get out, not to just look and look and 
look and paw and paw. Some of the people were looking at each other instead of the 
merchandise. 

A clerk came up to Billy and told him the good stuff was in the back, that the books 
Billy was reading were window dressing. ’That ain't what you want, for Christ's sake,' he 
told Billy 'What you want's in back.' 

So Billy moved a little farther back, but not as far as the part for adults only. He moved 
because of absentminded politeness, taking a Trout book with him-the one about Jesus 
and the time machine. 

The time-traveler in the book went back to Bible times to find out one thing in 
particular: Whether or not Jesus had really died on the cross, or whether he had been 
taken down while still alive, whether he had really gone on living. The hero had a 
stethoscope along. 

Billy skipped to the end of the book, where the hero mingled with the people who were 
taking Jesus down from the cross. The time-traveler was the first one up the ladder, 
dressed in clothes of the period, and he leaned close to Jesus so people couldn't see him 
use the stethoscope, and he listened. 

There wasn't a sound inside the emaciated chest cavity. The Son of God was as dead as 
a doornail. 

So it goes. 

The time-traveler, whose name was Lance Corwin, also got to measure the length of 
Jesus, but not to weigh him. Jesus was five feet and three and a half inches long. 

Another clerk came up to Billy and asked him if he was going to buy the book or not, 
and Billy said that he wanted to buy it, please. He had his back to a rack of paperback 
books about oral-genital contacts from ancient Egypt to the present and so on, and the 
clerk supposed Billy was reading one of these. So he was startled when he saw what 
Billy's book was. He said, 'Jesus Christ, where did you find this thing?' and so on, and he 



had to tell the other clerks about the pervert who wanted to buy the window dressing. The 
other clerks already knew about Billy. They had been watching him, too. 

The cash register where Billy waited for his change was near a bin of old girly 
magazines. Billy looked at one out of the corner of his eye, and he saw this question on 
its cover: What really became of Montana Wildhack? 

So Billy read it. He knew where Montana Wildhack really was, of course. She was 
back on Tralfamadore, taking care of the baby, but the magazine, which was called 
Midnight Pussycats, promised that she was wearing a cement overcoat under fathoms of 
saltwater in San Pedro Bay. 



Billy took his seat with the others around a golden oak table, with a microphone all his 
own. The master of ceremonies asked him his name and what paper he was from. Billy 
said he was from the Ilium Gazette. 

He was nervous and happy. 'If you're ever in Cody, Wyoming,’ he told himself, 'just 
ask for Wild Bob.’ 

Billy put his hand up at the very first part of the program but he wasn’t called on right 
away. Others got in ahead of him. One of them said that it would be a nice time to bury 
the novel, now that a Virginian, one hundred years after Appomattox, had written Uncle 
Tom's Cabin. Another one said that people couldn’t read well enough anymore to turn 
print into exciting situations in their skulls, so that authors had to do what Norman Mailer 
did, which was to perfonn in public what he had written. The master of ceremonies asked 
people to say what they thought the function of the novel might be in modem society, and 
one critic said, 'To provide touches of color in rooms with all-white wars.’ Another one 



said, ’To describe blow-jobs artistically.’ Another one said, ’To teach wives of junior 
executives what to buy next and how to act in a French restaurant.' 

And then Billy was allowed to speak. Off he went, in that beautifully trained voice of 
his, telling about the flying saucers and Montana Wildhack and so on. 

He was gently expelled from the studio during a commercial. He went back to his hotel 
room, put a quarter into the Magic Fingers machine connected to his bed, and he went to 
sleep. He traveled in time back to Tralfamadore. 

'Time-traveling again?' said Montana. It was artificial evening in the dome. She was 
breast-feeding their child. 

'Hmm?' said Billy. 

'You've been time-traveling again. I can always tell.’ 

'Urn.' 

'Where did you go this time? It wasn’t the war. I can tell that, too. ’ 

'New York.’ 

'The Big Apple.’ 

'Hm?' 

'That's what they used to call New York.’ 

"Oh.’ 

'You see any plays or movies?' 

'No-I walked around Times Square some, bought a book by Kilgore Trout.' 

'Lucky you.’ She did not share his enthusiasm for Kilgore Trout. 

Billy mentioned casually that he had seen part of a blue movie she had made. Her 
response was no less casual. It was Tralfamadorian and guilt-free: 

'Yes-' she said, 'and I've heard about you in the war, about what a clown you were. And 
I've heard about the high school teacher who was shot. He made a blue movie with a 
firing squad.' She moved the baby from one breast to the other, because the moment was 
so structured that she had to do so. 

There was a silence. 

'They're playing with the clocks again,' said Montana, rising, preparing to put the baby 
into its crib. She meant that their keepers were making the electric clocks in the dome go 
fast, then slow, then fast again., and watching the little Earthling family through 
peepholes. 

There was a silver chain around Montana Wildhack's neck. Hanging from it, between 
her breasts, was a locket containing a photograph of her alcoholic mother-grainy thing, 
soot and chalk. It could have been anybody. Engraved on the outside of the locket were 
these words: 

GOD GRANT ME THE SERENITY 
TO ACCEPT THE THINGS I 
CANNOT CHANGE, COURAGE 
TO CHANGE THE THINGS 
I CAN, AND WISDOM 
ALWAYS TO TELL THE 
DIFFERENCE. 


Ten 



Robert Kennedy, whose summer home is eight miles from the home I live in all year 
round, was shot two nights ago. He died last night. So it goes. 

Martin Luther King was shot a month ago. He died, too. So it goes. 

And every day my Government gives me a count of corpses created by military science 
in Vietnam. So it goes. 

My father died many years ago now-of natural causes. So it goes. He was a sweet man. 
He was a gun nut, too. He left me his guns. They rust. 

On Tralfamadore, says Billy Pilgrim, there isn't much interest in Jesus Christ. The 
Earthling figure who is most engaging to the Tralfamadorian mind, he says, is Charles 
Darwin-who taught that those who die are meant to die, that corpses are improvements. 

So it goes. 

The same general idea appears in The Big Board by Kilgore Trout. The flying saucer 
creatures who capture Trout's hem ask him about Darwin. They also ask him about golf. 

If what Billy Pilgrim learned from the Tralfamadorians is true, that we will all live 
forever, no matter how dead we may sometimes seem to be, I am not overjoyed. Still-if I 
am going to spend eternity visiting this moment and that, I'm grateful that so many of 
those moments are nice. 

One of the nicest ones in recent times was on my trip back to Dresden with my old war 
buddy, O'Hare. 

We took a Hungarian Airlines plane from East Berlin. The pilot had a handlebar 
mustache. He looked like Adolph Menjou. He smoked a Cuban cigar while the plane was 
being fueled. When we took off, there was no talk of fastening seat belts. 

When we were up in the air, a young steward served us rye bread and salami and butter 
and cheese and white wine. The folding tray in front of me would not open out. The 
steward went into the cockpit for a tool, came back with a beer-can opener. He used it to 
pry out the tray. 

There were only six other passengers. They spoke many languages. They were having 
nice times, too. East Germany was down below, and the lights were on. I imagined 
dropping bombs on those lights, those villages and cities and towns. 

O'Hare and I had never expected to make any money-and here we were now, 
extremely well-to-do. 

'If you're ever in Cody, Wyoming,’ I said to him lazily, 'just ask for Wild Bob.’ 

O'Hare had a little notebook with him, and printed in the back of it were postal rates 
and airline distances and the altitudes of famous mountains and other key facts about the 
world. He was looking up the population of Dresden, which wasn’t in the notebook, when 
he came across this, which he gave me to read: 

On an average, 324,000 new babies are born into the world every day. During that 
same day, 10,000 persons, in an average, will have starved to death or died from 
malnutrition. So it goes. In addition, 123,000 persons will die for other reasons. So it 
goes. This leaves a net gain of about 191,000 each day in the world. The Population 



Reference Bureau predicts that the world’s total population will double to 7,000,000,000 
before the year 2000. 

’I suppose they will all want dignity,' I said. 

'I suppose,’ said O’Hare. 

Billy Pilgrim was meanwhile traveling back to Dresden, too, but not in the present. He 
was going back there in 1945, two days after the city was destroyed. Now Billy and the 
rest were being marched into the ruins by their guards. I was there. O'Hare was there. We 
had spent the past two nights in the blind innkeeper's stable. Authorities had found us 
there. They told us what to do. We were to borrow picks and shovels and crowbars and 
wheelbarrows from our neighbors. We were to march with these implements to such and 
such a place in the ruins, ready to go to work. 

There were cades on the main roads leading into the ruins. Germans were stopped 
there. They were not permitted to explore the moon. 

Prisoners of war from many lands came together that morning at such and such a place 
in Dresden. It had been decreed that here was where the digging for bodies was to begin. 
So the digging began. 

Billy found himself paired as a digger with a Maori, who had been captured at Tobruk. 
The Maori was chocolate brown. He had whirlpools tattooed on his forehead and his 
cheeks. Billy and the Maori dug into the inert, unpromising gravel of the moon. The 
materials were loose, so there were constant little avalanches. 

Many holes were dug at once. Nobody knew yet what there was to find. Most holes 
came to nothing-to pavement, or to boulders so huge they would not move. There was no 
machinery. Not even horses or mules or oxen could cross the moonscape. 

And Billy and the Maori and others helping them with their particular hole came at last 
to a membrane of timbers laced over rocks which had wedged together to form an 
accidental dome. They made a hole in the membrane. There was darkness and space 
under there. 

A German soldier with a flashlight went down into the darkness, was gone a long time. 
When he finally came back, he told a superior on the rim of the hole that there were 
dozens of bodies down there. They were sitting on benches. They were unmarked. 

So it goes. 

The superior said that the opening in the membrane should be enlarged, and that a 
ladder should be put in the hole, so that bodies could be carried out. Thus began the first 
corpse mine in Dresden. 

There were hundreds of corpse mines operating by and by. They didn’t smell bad at 
first, were wax museums. But then the bodies rotted and liquefied, and the stink was like 
roses and mustard gas. 

So it goes. 

The Maori Billy had worked with died of the dry heaves, after having been ordered to 
go down in that stink and work. He tore himself to pieces, throwing up and throwing up. 

So it goes. 



So a new technique was devised. Bodies weren't brought up any more. They were 
cremated by soldiers with flamethrowers right where they were. The soldiers, stood 
outside the shelters, simply sent the fire in. 

Somewhere in there the poor old high school teacher, Edgar Derby, was caught with a 
teapot he had taken from the catacombs. He was arrested for plundering. He was tried 
and shot. 

So it goes. 

And somewhere in there was springtime. The corpse mines were closed down. The 
soldiers all left to fight the Russians. In the suburbs, the women and children dug rifle 
pits. Billy and the rest of his group were locked up in the stable in the suburbs. And then, 
one morning, they got up to discover that the door was unlocked. The Second World War 
in Europe was over. 

Billy and the rest wandered out onto the shady street. The trees were leafing out. There 
was nothing going on out there, no traffic of any kind. There was only one vehicle, an 
abandoned wagon drawn by two horses. The wagon was green and coffin-shaped. 

Birds were talking. 

One bird said to Billy Pilgrim, ’Poo-tee-weet?’ 


1:1 In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.

1:2 And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon
the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the
waters.

1:3 And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.

1:4 And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light
from the darkness.

1:5 And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night.
And the evening and the morning were the first day.

 Campbell offered the Americans food now, steaks and mashed potatoes and gravy and 
mince pie, if they would join the Free Corps. 'Once the Russians are defeated,’ he went 
on, you will be repatriated through Switzerland.’ 

There was no response. 

'You're going to have to fight the Communists sooner or later,' said Campbell. "Why 
not get it over with now?' 

And then it developed that Campbell was not going to go unanswered after all. Poor 
old Derby, the doomed high school teacher, lumbered to his feet for what was probably 
the finest moment in his life. 'Mere are almost no characters in this story, and almost no 
dramatic confrontations, because most of the people in it are so sick and so much the 
listless playthings of enonnous forces. One of the main effects of war, after an, is that 
people are discouraged from being characters. But old Derby was a character now. 

His stance was that of a punch-drunk fighter. His head was down, his fists were out 
front, waiting for information and battle plan. Derby raised his head, called Campbell a 
snake. He corrected that. He said that snakes couldn’t help being snakes, and that 
Campbell, who could help being what he was, was something much lower than a snake or 
a rat-or even a blood-filled tick. 

Campbell smiled. 

1:6 And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters,
and let it divide the waters from the waters.

1:7 And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were
under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament:
and it was so.

1:8 And God called the firmament Heaven. And the evening and the
morning were the second day.

1:9 And God said, Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together
unto one place, and let the dry land appear: and it was so.

1:10 And God called the dry land Earth; and the gathering together of
the waters called he Seas: and God saw that it was good.

1:11 And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding
seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed is
in itself, upon the earth: and it was so.

1:12 And the earth brought forth grass, and herb yielding seed after
his kind, and the tree yielding fruit, whose seed was in itself, after
his kind: and God saw that it was good.

1:13 And the evening and the morning were the third day.

1:14 And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven
to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs, and for
seasons, and for days, and years: 1:15 And let them be for lights in
the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth: and it was
so.

’You must have had mixed feelings, there on the ground.’ 

"It was all right.,’ said Billy. ’Everything is all right, and everybody has to do exactly 
what he does. -I learned that on Tralfamadore.’ 

Billy Pilgrim's daughter took him home later that day, put him to bed in his house, 
turned the Magic Fingers on. There was a practical nurse there. Billy wasn’t supposed to 
work or even leave the house for a while, at least. He was under observation. 

But Billy sneaked out while the nurse wasn't watching and he drove to New York City, 
where he hoped to appear on television. He was going to tell the world about the lessons 
of Tralfamadore. 

Billy Pilgrim checked into the Royalton Hotel on Forty-fourth Street in New York. He 
by chance was given a room which had once been the home of George Jean Nathan, the 
critic and editor. Nathan, according to the Earthling concept of time, had died back in 
1958. According to the Tralfamadorian concept, of course. Nathan was still alive 
somewhere and always would be. 

The room was small and simple, except that it was on the top floor, and had French 
doors which opened onto a terrace as large as the room. And beyond the parapet of the 
terrace was the air space over Forty-fourth Street. Billy now leaned over that parapet, 
looked down at all the people moving hither and yon. They were jerky little scissors. 

They were a lot of fun. 

1:16 And God made two great lights; the greater light to rule the day,
and the lesser light to rule the night: he made the stars also.

1:17 And God set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light
upon the earth, 1:18 And to rule over the day and over the night, and
to divide the light from the darkness: and God saw that it was good.

1:19 And the evening and the morning were the fourth day.

1:20 And God said, Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving
creature that hath life, and fowl that may fly above the earth in the
open firmament of heaven.

1:21 And God created great whales, and every living creature that
moveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after their kind,
and every winged fowl after his kind: and God saw that it was good.

1:22 And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill
the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply in the earth.

1:23 And the evening and the morning were the fifth day.

1:24 And God said, Let the earth bring forth the living creature after
his kind, cattle, and creeping thing, and beast of the earth after his
kind: and it was so.

1:25 And God made the beast of the earth after his kind, and cattle
after their kind, and every thing that creepeth upon the earth after
his kind: and God saw that it was good.

1:26 And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness:
and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl
of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over
every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.

1:27 So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created
he him; male and female created he them.

1:28 And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and
multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion
over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every
living thing that moveth upon the earth.

1:29 And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed,
which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in the which
is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for meat.

1:30 And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air,
and to every thing that creepeth upon the earth, wherein there is
life, I have given every green herb for meat: and it was so.

1:31 And God saw every thing that he had made, and, behold, it was
very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day.

2:1 Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of
them.

2:2 And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made; and
he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made.

2:3 And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it: because that
in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made.

2:4 These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth when
they were created, in the day that the LORD God made the earth and the
heavens, 2:5 And every plant of the field before it was in the earth,
and every herb of the field before it grew: for the LORD God had not
caused it to rain upon the earth, and there was not a man to till the
ground.

2:6 But there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the whole
face of the ground.

2:7 And the LORD God formed man of the dust of the ground, and
breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living
soul.

2:8 And the LORD God planted a garden eastward in Eden; and there he
put the man whom he had formed.

2:9 And out of the ground made the LORD God to grow every tree that is
pleasant to the sight, and good for food; the tree of life also in the
midst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good and evil.

2:10 And a river went out of Eden to water the garden; and from thence
it was parted, and became into four heads.


2:18 And the LORD God said, It is not good that the man should be
alone; I will make him an help meet for him.

2:19 And out of the ground the LORD God formed every beast of the
field, and every fowl of the air; and brought them unto Adam to see
what he would call them: and whatsoever Adam called every living
creature, that was the name thereof.

2:20 And Adam gave names to all cattle, and to the fowl of the air,
and to every beast of the field; but for Adam there was not found an
help meet for him.

2:21 And the LORD God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he
slept: and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead
thereof; 2:22 And the rib, which the LORD God had taken from man, made
he a woman, and brought her unto the man.

2:23 And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my
flesh: she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man.

2:24 Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall
cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh.

2:25 And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not
ashamed.

3:1 Now the serpent was more subtil than any beast of the field which
the LORD God had made. And he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said,
Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden? 3:2 And the woman said
unto the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden:
3:3 But of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden,
God hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest
ye die.

3:4 And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die: 3:5
For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall
be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil.

3:6 And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that
it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one
wise, she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave also unto
her husband with her; and he did eat.

3:7 And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they
were naked; and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves
aprons.

3:8 And they heard the voice of the LORD God walking in the garden in
the cool of the day: and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the
presence of the LORD God amongst the trees of the garden.

3:9 And the LORD God called unto Adam, and said unto him, Where art
thou? 3:10 And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was
afraid, because I was naked; and I hid myself.

3:11 And he said, Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten
of the tree, whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat?
3:12 And the man said, The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she
gave me of the tree, and I did eat.

3:13 And the LORD God said unto the woman, What is this that thou hast
done? And the woman said, The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat.

3:14 And the LORD God said unto the serpent, Because thou hast done
this, thou art cursed above all cattle, and above every beast of the
field; upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the
days of thy life: 3:15 And I will put enmity between thee and the
woman, and between thy seed and her seed; it shall bruise thy head,
and thou shalt bruise his heel.

3:16 Unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and
thy conception; in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children; and thy
desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee.

3:17 And unto Adam he said, Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice
of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree, of which I commanded thee,
saying, Thou shalt not eat of it: cursed is the ground for thy sake;
in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life; 3:18 Thorns
also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee; and thou shalt eat the
herb of the field; 3:19 In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread,
till thou return unto the ground; for out of it wast thou taken: for
dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return.

3:20 And Adam called his wife’s name Eve; because she was the mother
of all living.

3:21 Unto Adam also and to his wife did the LORD God make coats of
skins, and clothed them.

3:22 And the LORD God said, Behold, the man is become as one of us, to
know good and evil: and now, lest he put forth his hand, and take also
of the tree of life, and eat, and live for ever: 3:23 Therefore the
LORD God sent him forth from the garden of Eden, to till the ground
from whence he was taken.

3:24 So he drove out the man; and he placed at the east of the garden
of Eden Cherubims, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keep
the way of the tree of life.

4:1 And Adam knew Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bare Cain, and
said, I have gotten a man from the LORD.

4:2 And she again bare his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of
sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground.

4:3 And in process of time it came to pass, that Cain brought of the
fruit of the ground an offering unto the LORD.

4:4 And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of
the fat thereof. And the LORD had respect unto Abel and to his
offering: 4:5 But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect.
And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell.

4:6 And the LORD said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? and why is thy
countenance fallen? 4:7 If thou doest well, shalt thou not be
accepted? and if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door. And unto
thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt rule over him.

4:8 And Cain talked with Abel his brother: and it came to pass, when
they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother,
and slew him.

4:9 And the LORD said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? And he
said, I know not: Am I my brother’s keeper? 4:10 And he said, What
hast thou done? the voice of thy brother’s blood crieth unto me from
the ground.

4:11 And now art thou cursed from the earth, which hath opened her
mouth to receive thy brother’s blood from thy hand; 4:12 When thou
tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield unto thee her
strength; a fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth.

4:13 And Cain said unto the LORD, My punishment is greater than I can
bear.

4:14 Behold, thou hast driven me out this day from the face of the
earth; and from thy face shall I be hid; and I shall be a fugitive and
a vagabond in the earth; and it shall come to pass, that every one
that findeth me shall slay me.

4:15 And the LORD said unto him, Therefore whosoever slayeth Cain,
vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And the LORD set a mark
upon Cain, lest any finding him should kill him.

4:16 And Cain went out from the presence of the LORD, and dwelt in the
land of Nod, on the east of Eden.

4:17 And Cain knew his wife; and she conceived, and bare Enoch: and he
builded a city, and called the name of the city, after the name of his
son, Enoch.

4:18 And unto Enoch was born Irad: and Irad begat Mehujael: and
Mehujael begat Methusael: and Methusael begat Lamech.

4:19 And Lamech took unto him two wives: the name of the one was Adah,
and the name of the other Zillah.

4:20 And Adah bare Jabal: he was the father of such as dwell in tents,
and of such as have cattle.

4:21 And his brother’s name was Jubal: he was the father of all such
as handle the harp and organ.

4:22 And Zillah, she also bare Tubalcain, an instructer of every
artificer in brass and iron: and the sister of Tubalcain was Naamah.

4:23 And Lamech said unto his wives, Adah and Zillah, Hear my voice;
ye wives of Lamech, hearken unto my speech: for I have slain a man to
my wounding, and a young man to my hurt.

4:24 If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, truly Lamech seventy and
sevenfold.

4:25 And Adam knew his wife again; and she bare a son, and called his
name Seth: For God, said she, hath appointed me another seed instead
of Abel, whom Cain slew.

4:26 And to Seth, to him also there was born a son; and he called his
name Enos: then began men to call upon the name of the LORD.

5:1 This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that God
created man, in the likeness of God made he him; 5:2 Male and female
created he them; and blessed them, and called their name Adam, in the
day when they were created.

5:3 And Adam lived an hundred and thirty years, and begat a son in his
own likeness, and after his image; and called his name Seth: 5:4 And
the days of Adam after he had begotten Seth were eight hundred years:
and he begat sons and daughters: 5:5 And all the days that Adam lived
were nine hundred and thirty years: and he died.

5:6 And Seth lived an hundred and five years, and begat Enos: 5:7 And
Seth lived after he begat Enos eight hundred and seven years, and
begat sons and daughters: 5:8 And all the days of Seth were nine
hundred and twelve years: and he died.

5:9 And Enos lived ninety years, and begat Cainan: 5:10 And Enos lived
after he begat Cainan eight hundred and fifteen years, and begat sons
and daughters: 5:11 And all the days of Enos were nine hundred and
five years: and he died.

5:12 And Cainan lived seventy years and begat Mahalaleel: 5:13 And
Cainan lived after he begat Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty years,
and begat sons and daughters: 5:14 And all the days of Cainan were
nine hundred and ten years: and he died.

5:15 And Mahalaleel lived sixty and five years, and begat Jared: 5:16
And Mahalaleel lived after he begat Jared eight hundred and thirty
years, and begat sons and daughters: 5:17 And all the days of
Mahalaleel were eight hundred ninety and five years: and he died.

5:18 And Jared lived an hundred sixty and two years, and he begat
Enoch: 5:19 And Jared lived after he begat Enoch eight hundred years,
and begat sons and daughters: 5:20 And all the days of Jared were nine
hundred sixty and two years: and he died.

5:21 And Enoch lived sixty and five years, and begat Methuselah: 5:22
And Enoch walked with God after he begat Methuselah three hundred
years, and begat sons and daughters: 5:23 And all the days of Enoch
were three hundred sixty and five years: 5:24 And Enoch walked with
God: and he was not; for God took him.

5:25 And Methuselah lived an hundred eighty and seven years, and begat
Lamech.

5:26 And Methuselah lived after he begat Lamech seven hundred eighty
and two years, and begat sons and daughters: 5:27 And all the days of
Methuselah were nine hundred sixty and nine years: and he died.

5:28 And Lamech lived an hundred eighty and two years, and begat a
son: 5:29 And he called his name Noah, saying, This same shall comfort
us concerning our work and toil of our hands, because of the ground
which the LORD hath cursed.

5:30 And Lamech lived after he begat Noah five hundred ninety and five
years, and begat sons and daughters: 5:31 And all the days of Lamech
were seven hundred seventy and seven years: and he died.

5:32 And Noah was five hundred years old: and Noah begat Shem, Ham,
and Japheth.

6:1 And it came to pass, when men began to multiply on the face of the
earth, and daughters were born unto them, 6:2 That the sons of God saw
the daughters of men that they were fair; and they took them wives of
all which they chose.

6:3 And the LORD said, My spirit shall not always strive with man, for
that he also is flesh: yet his days shall be an hundred and twenty
years.

6:4 There were giants in the earth in those days; and also after that,
when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they bare
children to them, the same became mighty men which were of old, men of
renown.

6:5 And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and
that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil
continually.

6:6 And it repented the LORD that he had made man on the earth, and it
grieved him at his heart.

6:7 And the LORD said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the
face of the earth; both man, and beast, and the creeping thing, and
the fowls of the air; for it repenteth me that I have made them.

6:8 But Noah found grace in the eyes of the LORD.

6:9 These are the generations of Noah: Noah was a just man and perfect
in his generations, and Noah walked with God.

6:10 And Noah begat three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.

6:11 The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled
with violence.

6:12 And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was corrupt; for
all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth.

6:13 And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh is come before me;
for the earth is filled with violence through them; and, behold, I
will destroy them with the earth.

6:14 Make thee an ark of gopher wood; rooms shalt thou make in the
ark, and shalt pitch it within and without with pitch.

6:15 And this is the fashion which thou shalt make it of: The length
of the ark shall be three hundred cubits, the breadth of it fifty
cubits, and the height of it thirty cubits.

6:16 A window shalt thou make to the ark, and in a cubit shalt thou
finish it above; and the door of the ark shalt thou set in the side
thereof; with lower, second, and third stories shalt thou make it.

6:17 And, behold, I, even I, do bring a flood of waters upon the
earth, to destroy all flesh, wherein is the breath of life, from under
heaven; and every thing that is in the earth shall die.

6:18 But with thee will I establish my covenant; and thou shalt come
into the ark, thou, and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy sons’ wives
with thee.

6:19 And of every living thing of all flesh, two of every sort shalt
thou bring into the ark, to keep them alive with thee; they shall be
male and female.

6:20 Of fowls after their kind, and of cattle after their kind, of
every creeping thing of the earth after his kind, two of every sort
shall come unto thee, to keep them alive.

6:21 And take thou unto thee of all food that is eaten, and thou shalt
gather it to thee; and it shall be for food for thee, and for them.

6:22 Thus did Noah; according to all that God commanded him, so did
he.

7:1 And the LORD said unto Noah, Come thou and all thy house into the
ark; for thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation.

7:2 Of every clean beast thou shalt take to thee by sevens, the male
and his female: and of beasts that are not clean by two, the male and
his female.

7:3 Of fowls also of the air by sevens, the male and the female; to
keep seed alive upon the face of all the earth.

7:4 For yet seven days, and I will cause it to rain upon the earth
forty days and forty nights; and every living substance that I have
made will I destroy from off the face of the earth.

7:5 And Noah did according unto all that the LORD commanded him.

7:6 And Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters was
upon the earth.

7:7 And Noah went in, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons’ wives
with him, into the ark, because of the waters of the flood.

7:8 Of clean beasts, and of beasts that are not clean, and of fowls,
and of every thing that creepeth upon the earth, 7:9 There went in two
and two unto Noah into the ark, the male and the female, as God had
commanded Noah.

7:10 And it came to pass after seven days, that the waters of the
flood were upon the earth.

7:11 In the six hundredth year of Noah’s life, in the second month,
the seventeenth day of the month, the same day were all the fountains
of the great deep broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened.

7:12 And the rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights.

7:13 In the selfsame day entered Noah, and Shem, and Ham, and Japheth,
the sons of Noah, and Noah’s wife, and the three wives of his sons
with them, into the ark; 7:14 They, and every beast after his kind,
and all the cattle after their kind, and every creeping thing that
creepeth upon the earth after his kind, and every fowl after his kind,
every bird of every sort.

7:15 And they went in unto Noah into the ark, two and two of all
flesh, wherein is the breath of life.

7:16 And they that went in, went in male and female of all flesh, as
God had commanded him: and the LORD shut him in.

7:17 And the flood was forty days upon the earth; and the waters
increased, and bare up the ark, and it was lift up above the earth.

7:18 And the waters prevailed, and were increased greatly upon the
earth; and the ark went upon the face of the waters.

7:19 And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth; and all the
high hills, that were under the whole heaven, were covered.

7:20 Fifteen cubits upward did the waters prevail; and the mountains
were covered.

7:21 And all flesh died that moved upon the earth, both of fowl, and
of cattle, and of beast, and of every creeping thing that creepeth
upon the earth, and every man: 7:22 All in whose nostrils was the
breath of life, of all that was in the dry land, died.

7:23 And every living substance was destroyed which was upon the face
of the ground, both man, and cattle, and the creeping things, and the
fowl of the heaven; and they were destroyed from the earth: and Noah
only remained alive, and they that were with him in the ark.

7:24 And the waters prevailed upon the earth an hundred and fifty
days.

8:1 And God remembered Noah, and every living thing, and all the
cattle that was with him in the ark: and God made a wind to pass over
the earth, and the waters asswaged; 8:2 The fountains also of the deep
and the windows of heaven were stopped, and the rain from heaven was
restrained; 8:3 And the waters returned from off the earth
continually: and after the end of the hundred and fifty days the
waters were abated.

8:4 And the ark rested in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of
the month, upon the mountains of Ararat.

8:5 And the waters decreased continually until the tenth month: in the
tenth month, on the first day of the month, were the tops of the
mountains seen.

8:6 And it came to pass at the end of forty days, that Noah opened the
window of the ark which he had made: 8:7 And he sent forth a raven,
which went forth to and fro, until the waters were dried up from off
the earth.

8:8 Also he sent forth a dove from him, to see if the waters were
abated from off the face of the ground; 8:9 But the dove found no rest
for the sole of her foot, and she returned unto him into the ark, for
the waters were on the face of the whole earth: then he put forth his
hand, and took her, and pulled her in unto him into the ark.

8:10 And he stayed yet other seven days; and again he sent forth the
dove out of the ark; 8:11 And the dove came in to him in the evening;
and, lo, in her mouth was an olive leaf pluckt off: so Noah knew that
the waters were abated from off the earth.

8:12 And he stayed yet other seven days; and sent forth the dove;
which returned not again unto him any more.

8:13 And it came to pass in the six hundredth and first year, in the
first month, the first day of the month, the waters were dried up from
off the earth: and Noah removed the covering of the ark, and looked,
and, behold, the face of the ground was dry.

8:14 And in the second month, on the seven and twentieth day of the
month, was the earth dried.

8:15 And God spake unto Noah, saying, 8:16 Go forth of the ark, thou,
and thy wife, and thy sons, and thy sons’ wives with thee.

8:17 Bring forth with thee every living thing that is with thee, of
all flesh, both of fowl, and of cattle, and of every creeping thing
that creepeth upon the earth; that they may breed abundantly in the
earth, and be fruitful, and multiply upon the earth.

8:18 And Noah went forth, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons’
wives with him: 8:19 Every beast, every creeping thing, and every
fowl, and whatsoever creepeth upon the earth, after their kinds, went
forth out of the ark.

8:20 And Noah builded an altar unto the LORD; and took of every clean
beast, and of every clean fowl, and offered burnt offerings on the
altar.

8:21 And the LORD smelled a sweet savour; and the LORD said in his
heart, I will not again curse the ground any more for man’s sake; for
the imagination of man’s heart is evil from his youth; neither will I
again smite any more every thing living, as I have done.

8:22 While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and
heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease.

9:1 And God blessed Noah and his sons, and said unto them, Be
fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth.

9:2 And the fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast
of the earth, and upon every fowl of the air, upon all that moveth
upon the earth, and upon all the fishes of the sea; into your hand are
they delivered.

9:3 Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you; even as the
green herb have I given you all things.

9:4 But flesh with the life thereof, which is the blood thereof, shall
ye not eat.

9:5 And surely your blood of your lives will I require; at the hand of
every beast will I require it, and at the hand of man; at the hand of
every man’s brother will I require the life of man.

9:6 Whoso sheddeth man’s blood, by man shall his blood be shed: for in
the image of God made he man.

9:7 And you, be ye fruitful, and multiply; bring forth abundantly in
the earth, and multiply therein.

9:8 And God spake unto Noah, and to his sons with him, saying, 9:9 And
I, behold, I establish my covenant with you, and with your seed after
you; 9:10 And with every living creature that is with you, of the
fowl, of the cattle, and of every beast of the earth with you; from
all that go out of the ark, to every beast of the earth.

9:11 And I will establish my covenant with you, neither shall all
flesh be cut off any more by the waters of a flood; neither shall
there any more be a flood to destroy the earth.

9:12 And God said, This is the token of the covenant which I make
between me and you and every living creature that is with you, for
perpetual generations: 9:13 I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall
be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth.

9:14 And it shall come to pass, when I bring a cloud over the earth,
that the bow shall be seen in the cloud: 9:15 And I will remember my
covenant, which is between me and you and every living creature of all
flesh; and the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all
flesh.

9:16 And the bow shall be in the cloud; and I will look upon it, that
I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living
creature of all flesh that is upon the earth.

9:17 And God said unto Noah, This is the token of the covenant, which
I have established between me and all flesh that is upon the earth.

9:18 And the sons of Noah, that went forth of the ark, were Shem, and
Ham, and Japheth: and Ham is the father of Canaan.

9:19 These are the three sons of Noah: and of them was the whole earth
overspread.

9:20 And Noah began to be an husbandman, and he planted a vineyard:
9:21 And he drank of the wine, and was drunken; and he was uncovered
within his tent.

9:22 And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father,
and told his two brethren without.

9:23 And Shem and Japheth took a garment, and laid it upon both their
shoulders, and went backward, and covered the nakedness of their
father; and their faces were backward, and they saw not their father’s
nakedness.

9:24 And Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what his younger son had
done unto him.

9:25 And he said, Cursed be Canaan; a servant of servants shall he be
unto his brethren.

9:26 And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of Shem; and Canaan shall be
his servant.

9:27 God shall enlarge Japheth, and he shall dwell in the tents of
Shem; and Canaan shall be his servant.

9:28 And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years.

9:29 And all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years: and
he died.

10:1 Now these are the generations of the sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, and
Japheth: and unto them were sons born after the flood.

10:2 The sons of Japheth; Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and
Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.

10:3 And the sons of Gomer; Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.

10:4 And the sons of Javan; Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and
Dodanim.

10:5 By these were the isles of the Gentiles divided in their lands;
every one after his tongue, after their families, in their nations.

10:6 And the sons of Ham; Cush, and Mizraim, and Phut, and Canaan.

10:7 And the sons of Cush; Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah,
and Sabtechah: and the sons of Raamah; Sheba, and Dedan.

10:8 And Cush begat Nimrod: he began to be a mighty one in the earth.

10:9 He was a mighty hunter before the LORD: wherefore it is said,
Even as Nimrod the mighty hunter before the LORD.

10:10 And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel, and Erech, and
Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.

10:11 Out of that land went forth Asshur, and builded Nineveh, and the
city Rehoboth, and Calah, 10:12 And Resen between Nineveh and Calah:
the same is a great city.

10:13 And Mizraim begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,
10:14 And Pathrusim, and Casluhim, (out of whom came Philistim,) and
Caphtorim.

10:15 And Canaan begat Sidon his first born, and Heth, 10:16 And the
Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgasite, 10:17 And the Hivite,
and the Arkite, and the Sinite, 10:18 And the Arvadite, and the
Zemarite, and the Hamathite: and afterward were the families of the
Canaanites spread abroad.

10:19 And the border of the Canaanites was from Sidon, as thou comest
to Gerar, unto Gaza; as thou goest, unto Sodom, and Gomorrah, and
Admah, and Zeboim, even unto Lasha.

10:20 These are the sons of Ham, after their families, after their
tongues, in their countries, and in their nations.

10:21 Unto Shem also, the father of all the children of Eber, the
brother of Japheth the elder, even to him were children born.

10:22 The children of Shem; Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud,
and Aram.

10:23 And the children of Aram; Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash.

10:24 And Arphaxad begat Salah; and Salah begat Eber.

10:25 And unto Eber were born two sons: the name of one was Peleg; for
in his days was the earth divided; and his brother’s name was Joktan.

10:26 And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and
Jerah, 10:27 And Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah, 10:28 And Obal, and
Abimael, and Sheba, 10:29 And Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab: all these
were the sons of Joktan.

10:30 And their dwelling was from Mesha, as thou goest unto Sephar a
mount of the east.

10:31 These are the sons of Shem, after their families, after their
tongues, in their lands, after their nations.

10:32 These are the families of the sons of Noah, after their
generations, in their nations: and by these were the nations divided
in the earth after the flood.

11:1 And the whole earth was of one language, and of one speech.

11:2 And it came to pass, as they journeyed from the east, that they
found a plain in the land of Shinar; and they dwelt there.

11:3 And they said one to another, Go to, let us make brick, and burn
them thoroughly. And they had brick for stone, and slime had they for
morter.

11:4 And they said, Go to, let us build us a city and a tower, whose
top may reach unto heaven; and let us make us a name, lest we be
scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth.

11:5 And the LORD came down to see the city and the tower, which the
children of men builded.

11:6 And the LORD said, Behold, the people is one, and they have all
one language; and this they begin to do: and now nothing will be
restrained from them, which they have imagined to do.

11:7 Go to, let us go down, and there confound their language, that
they may not understand one another’s speech.

11:8 So the LORD scattered them abroad from thence upon the face of
all the earth: and they left off to build the city.

11:9 Therefore is the name of it called Babel; because the LORD did
there confound the language of all the earth: and from thence did the
LORD scatter them abroad upon the face of all the earth.

11:10 These are the generations of Shem: Shem was an hundred years
old, and begat Arphaxad two years after the flood: 11:11 And Shem
lived after he begat Arphaxad five hundred years, and begat sons and
daughters.

11:12 And Arphaxad lived five and thirty years, and begat Salah: 11:13
And Arphaxad lived after he begat Salah four hundred and three years,
and begat sons and daughters.

11:14 And Salah lived thirty years, and begat Eber: 11:15 And Salah
lived after he begat Eber four hundred and three years, and begat sons
and daughters.

11:16 And Eber lived four and thirty years, and begat Peleg: 11:17 And
Eber lived after he begat Peleg four hundred and thirty years, and
begat sons and daughters.

11:18 And Peleg lived thirty years, and begat Reu: 11:19 And Peleg
lived after he begat Reu two hundred and nine years, and begat sons
and daughters.

11:20 And Reu lived two and thirty years, and begat Serug: 11:21 And
Reu lived after he begat Serug two hundred and seven years, and begat
sons and daughters.

11:22 And Serug lived thirty years, and begat Nahor: 11:23 And Serug
lived after he begat Nahor two hundred years, and begat sons and
daughters.

11:24 And Nahor lived nine and twenty years, and begat Terah: 11:25
And Nahor lived after he begat Terah an hundred and nineteen years,
and begat sons and daughters.

11:26 And Terah lived seventy years, and begat Abram, Nahor, and
Haran.

11:27 Now these are the generations of Terah: Terah begat Abram,
Nahor, and Haran; and Haran begat Lot.

11:28 And Haran died before his father Terah in the land of his
nativity, in Ur of the Chaldees.

11:29 And Abram and Nahor took them wives: the name of Abram’s wife
was Sarai; and the name of Nahor’s wife, Milcah, the daughter of
Haran, the father of Milcah, and the father of Iscah.

11:30 But Sarai was barren; she had no child.

11:31 And Terah took Abram his son, and Lot the son of Haran his son’s
son, and Sarai his daughter in law, his son Abram’s wife; and they
went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees, to go into the land of
Canaan; and they came unto Haran, and dwelt there.

11:32 And the days of Terah were two hundred and five years: and Terah
died in Haran.

12:1 Now the LORD had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country,
and from thy kindred, and from thy father’s house, unto a land that I
will shew thee: 12:2 And I will make of thee a great nation, and I
will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a
blessing: 12:3 And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him
that curseth thee: and in thee shall all families of the earth be
blessed.

12:4 So Abram departed, as the LORD had spoken unto him; and Lot went
with him: and Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed
out of Haran.

12:5 And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother’s son, and all
their substance that they had gathered, and the souls that they had
gotten in Haran; and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan;
and into the land of Canaan they came.

12:6 And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Sichem, unto
the plain of Moreh. And the Canaanite was then in the land.

12:7 And the LORD appeared unto Abram, and said, Unto thy seed will I
give this land: and there builded he an altar unto the LORD, who
appeared unto him.

12:8 And he removed from thence unto a mountain on the east of Bethel,
and pitched his tent, having Bethel on the west, and Hai on the east:
and there he builded an altar unto the LORD, and called upon the name
of the LORD.

12:9 And Abram journeyed, going on still toward the south.

12:10 And there was a famine in the land: and Abram went down into
Egypt to sojourn there; for the famine was grievous in the land.

12:11 And it came to pass, when he was come near to enter into Egypt,
that he said unto Sarai his wife, Behold now, I know that thou art a
fair woman to look upon: 12:12 Therefore it shall come to pass, when
the Egyptians shall see thee, that they shall say, This is his wife:
and they will kill me, but they will save thee alive.

12:13 Say, I pray thee, thou art my sister: that it may be well with
me for thy sake; and my soul shall live because of thee.

12:14 And it came to pass, that, when Abram was come into Egypt, the
Egyptians beheld the woman that she was very fair.

12:15 The princes also of Pharaoh saw her, and commended her before
Pharaoh: and the woman was taken into Pharaoh’s house.

12:16 And he entreated Abram well for her sake: and he had sheep, and
oxen, and he asses, and menservants, and maidservants, and she asses,
and camels.

12:17 And the LORD plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues
because of Sarai Abram’s wife.

12:18 And Pharaoh called Abram and said, What is this that thou hast
done unto me? why didst thou not tell me that she was thy wife? 12:19
Why saidst thou, She is my sister? so I might have taken her to me to
wife: now therefore behold thy wife, take her, and go thy way.

12:20 And Pharaoh commanded his men concerning him: and they sent him
away, and his wife, and all that he had.

 seed as the dust of the earth: so that if a
man can number the dust of the earth, then shall thy seed also be
numbered.

13:17 Arise, walk through the land in the length of it and in the
breadth of it; for I will give it unto thee.

13:18 Then Abram removed his tent, and came and dwelt in the plain of
Mamre, which is in Hebron, and built there an altar unto the LORD.

14:1 And it came to pass in the days of Amraphel king of Shinar,
Arioch king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of
nations; 14:2 That these made war with Bera king of Sodom, and with
Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, and Shemeber king of
Zeboiim, and the king of Bela, which is Zoar.

14:3 All these were joined together in the vale of Siddim, which is
the salt sea.

14:4 Twelve years they served Chedorlaomer, and in the thirteenth year
they rebelled.

14:5 And in the fourteenth year came Chedorlaomer, and the kings that
were with him, and smote the Rephaims in Ashteroth Karnaim, and the
Zuzims in Ham, and the Emins in Shaveh Kiriathaim, 14:6 And the
Horites in their mount Seir, unto Elparan, which is by the wilderness.

14:7 And they returned, and came to Enmishpat, which is Kadesh, and
smote all the country of the Amalekites, and also the Amorites, that
dwelt in Hazezontamar.

14:8 And there went out the king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrah,
and the king of Admah, and the king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela
(the same is Zoar;) and they joined battle with them in the vale of
Siddim; 14:9 With Chedorlaomer the king of Elam, and with Tidal king
of nations, and Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar;
four kings with five.

14:10 And the vale of Siddim was full of slimepits; and the kings of
Sodom and Gomorrah fled, and fell there; and they that remained fled
to the mountain.

14:11 And they took all the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah, and all their
victuals, and went their way.

14:12 And they took Lot, Abram’s brother’s son, who dwelt in Sodom,
and his goods, and departed.

14:13 And there came one that had escaped, and told Abram the Hebrew;
for he dwelt in the plain of Mamre the Amorite, brother of Eshcol, and
brother of Aner: and these were confederate with Abram.

14:14 And when Abram heard that his brother was taken captive, he
armed his trained servants, born in his own house, three hundred and
eighteen, and pursued them unto Dan.

14:15 And he divided himself against them, he and his servants, by
night, and smote them, and pursued them unto Hobah, which is on the
left hand of Damascus.

14:16 And he brought back all the goods, and also brought again his
brother Lot, and his goods, and the women also, and the people.

14:17 And the king of Sodom went out to meet him after his return from
the slaughter of Chedorlaomer, and of the kings that were with him, at
the valley of Shaveh, which is the king’s dale.

14:18 And Melchizedek king of Salem brought forth bread and wine: and
he was the priest of the most high God.

14:19 And he blessed him, and said, Blessed be Abram of the most high
God, possessor of heaven and earth: 14:20 And blessed be the most high
God, which hath delivered thine enemies into thy hand. And he gave him
tithes of all.

14:21 And the king of Sodom said unto Abram, Give me the persons, and
take the goods to thyself.

14:22 And Abram said to the king of Sodom, I have lift up mine hand
unto the LORD, the most high God, the possessor of heaven and earth,
14:23 That I will not take from a thread even to a shoelatchet, and
that I will not take any thing that is thine, lest thou shouldest say,
I have made Abram rich: 14:24 Save only that which the young men have
eaten, and the portion of the men which went with me, Aner, Eshcol,
and Mamre; let them take their portion.

15:1 After these things the word of the LORD came unto Abram in a
vision, saying, Fear not, Abram: I am thy shield, and thy exceeding
great reward.

15:2 And Abram said, LORD God, what wilt thou give me, seeing I go
childless, and the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus?
15:3 And Abram said, Behold, to me thou hast given no seed: and, lo,
one born in my house is mine heir.

15:4 And, behold, the word of the LORD came unto him, saying, This
shall not be thine heir; but he that shall come forth out of thine own
bowels shall be thine heir.

15:5 And he brought him forth abroad, and said, Look now toward
heaven, and tell the stars, if thou be able to number them: and he
said unto him, So shall thy seed be.

15:6 And he believed in the LORD; and he counted it to him for
righteousness.

45:22 To all of them he gave each man changes of raiment; but to
Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver, and five changes of
raiment.

45:23 And to his father he sent after this manner; ten asses laden
with the good things of Egypt, and ten she asses laden with corn and
bread and meat for his father by the way.

45:24 So he sent his brethren away, and they departed: and he said
unto them, See that ye fall not out by the way.

45:25 And they went up out of Egypt, and came into the land of Canaan
unto Jacob their father, 45:26 And told him, saying, Joseph is yet
alive, and he is governor over all the land of Egypt. And Jacob’s
heart fainted, for he believed them not.

45:27 And they told him all the words of Joseph, which he had said
unto them: and when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry
him, the spirit of Jacob their father revived: 45:28 And Israel said,
It is enough; Joseph my son is yet alive: I will go and see him before
I die.

46:1 And Israel took his journey with all that he had, and came to
Beersheba, and offered sacrifices unto the God of his father Isaac.

46:2 And God spake unto Israel in the visions of the night, and said,
Jacob, Jacob. And he said, Here am I.

46:3 And he said, I am God, the God of thy father: fear not to go down
into Egypt; for I will there make of thee a great nation: 46:4 I will
go down with thee into Egypt; and I will also surely bring thee up
again: and Joseph shall put his hand upon thine eyes.

46:5 And Jacob rose up from Beersheba: and the sons of Israel carried
Jacob their father, and their little ones, and their wives, in the
wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him.

46:6 And they took their cattle, and their goods, which they had
gotten in the land of Canaan, and came into Egypt, Jacob, and all his
seed with him: 46:7 His sons, and his sons’ sons with him, his
daughters, and his sons’ daughters, and all his seed brought he with
him into Egypt.

46:8 And these are the names of the children of Israel, which came
into Egypt, Jacob and his sons: Reuben, Jacob’s firstborn.

46:9 And the sons of Reuben; Hanoch, and Phallu, and Hezron, and
Carmi.

46:10 And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin,
and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman.

46:11 And the sons of Levi; Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.

46:12 And the sons of Judah; Er, and Onan, and Shelah, and Pharez, and
Zarah: but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. And the sons of
Pharez were Hezron and Hamul.

46:13 And the sons of Issachar; Tola, and Phuvah, and Job, and
Shimron.

46:14 And the sons of Zebulun; Sered, and Elon, and Jahleel.

46:15 These be the sons of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob in
Padanaram, with his daughter Dinah: all the souls of his sons and his
daughters were thirty and three.

46:16 And the sons of Gad; Ziphion, and Haggi, Shuni, and Ezbon, Eri,
and Arodi, and Areli.

46:17 And the sons of Asher; Jimnah, and Ishuah, and Isui, and Beriah,
and Serah their sister: and the sons of Beriah; Heber, and Malchiel.

46:18 These are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah his
daughter, and these she bare unto Jacob, even sixteen souls.

46:19 The sons of Rachel Jacob’s wife; Joseph, and Benjamin.

46:20 And unto Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manasseh and
Ephraim, which Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On bare
unto him.

46:21 And the sons of Benjamin were Belah, and Becher, and Ashbel,
Gera, and Naaman, Ehi, and Rosh, Muppim, and Huppim, and Ard.

46:22 These are the sons of Rachel, which were born to Jacob: all the
souls were fourteen.

46:23 And the sons of Dan; Hushim.

46:24 And the sons of Naphtali; Jahzeel, and Guni, and Jezer, and
Shillem.

46:25 These are the sons of Bilhah, which Laban gave unto Rachel his
daughter, and she bare these unto Jacob: all the souls were seven.

46:26 All the souls that came with Jacob into Egypt, which came out of
his loins, besides Jacob’s sons’ wives, all the souls were threescore
and six; 46:27 And the sons of Joseph, which were born him in Egypt,
were two souls: all the souls of the house of Jacob, which came into
Egypt, were threescore and ten.

46:28 And he sent Judah before him unto Joseph, to direct his face
unto Goshen; and they came into the land of Goshen.


15:7 And he said unto him, I am the LORD that brought thee out of Ur
of the Chaldees, to give thee this land to inherit it.

15:8 And he said, LORD God, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit
it? 15:9 And he said unto him, Take me an heifer of three years old,
and a she goat of three years old, and a ram of three years old, and a
turtledove, and a young pigeon.

15:10 And he took unto him all these, and divided them in the midst,
and laid each piece one against another: but the birds divided he not.

15:11 And when the fowls came down upon the carcases, Abram drove them
away.

15:12 And when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram;
and, lo, an horror of great darkness fell upon him.

15:13 And he said unto Abram, Know of a surety that thy seed shall be
a stranger in a land that is not theirs, and shall serve them; and
they shall afflict them four hundred years; 15:14 And also that
nation, whom they shall serve, will I judge: and afterward shall they
come out with great substance.

15:15 And thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace; thou shalt be buried
in a good old age.

15:16 But in the fourth generation they shall come hither again: for
the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full.

15:17 And it came to pass, that, when the sun went down, and it was
dark, behold a smoking furnace, and a burning lamp that passed between
those pieces.

15:18 In the same day the LORD made a covenant with Abram, saying,
Unto thy seed have I given this land, from the river of Egypt unto the
great river, the river Euphrates: 15:19 The Kenites, and the
Kenizzites, and the Kadmonites, 15:20 And the Hittites, and the
Perizzites, and the Rephaims, 15:21 And the Amorites, and the
Canaanites, and the Girgashites, and the Jebusites.

16:1 Now Sarai Abram’s wife bare him no children: and she had an
handmaid, an Egyptian, whose name was Hagar.

16:2 And Sarai said unto Abram, Behold now, the LORD hath restrained
me from bearing: I pray thee, go in unto my maid; it may be that I may
obtain children by her. And Abram hearkened to the voice of Sarai.

16:3 And Sarai Abram’s wife took Hagar her maid the Egyptian, after
Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan, and gave her to her
husband Abram to be his wife.

16:4 And he went in unto Hagar, and she conceived: and when she saw
that she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her eyes.

16:5 And Sarai said unto Abram, My wrong be upon thee: I have given my
maid into thy bosom; and when she saw that she had conceived, I was
despised in her eyes: the LORD judge between me and thee.

16:6 But Abram said unto Sarai, Behold, thy maid is in thine hand; do
to her as it pleaseth thee. And when Sarai dealt hardly with her, she
fled from her face.

16:7 And the angel of the LORD found her by a fountain of water in the
wilderness, by the fountain in the way to Shur.

16:8 And he said, Hagar, Sarai’s maid, whence camest thou? and whither
wilt thou go? And she said, I flee from the face of my mistress Sarai.

16:9 And the angel of the LORD said unto her, Return to thy mistress,
and submit thyself under her hands.

16:10 And the angel of the LORD said unto her, I will multiply thy
seed exceedingly, that it shall not be numbered for multitude.

16:11 And the angel of the LORD said unto her, Behold, thou art with
child and shalt bear a son, and shalt call his name Ishmael; because
the LORD hath heard thy affliction.

16:12 And he will be a wild man; his hand will be against every man,
and every man’s hand against him; and he shall dwell in the presence
of all his brethren.

16:13 And she called the name of the LORD that spake unto her, Thou
God seest me: for she said, Have I also here looked after him that
seeth me? 16:14 Wherefore the well was called Beerlahairoi; behold,
it is between Kadesh and Bered.

16:15 And Hagar bare Abram a son: and Abram called his son’s name,
which Hagar bare, Ishmael.

16:16 And Abram was fourscore and six years old, when Hagar bare
Ishmael to Abram.

17:1 And when Abram was ninety years old and nine, the LORD appeared
to Abram, and said unto him, I am the Almighty God; walk before me,
and be thou perfect.

17:2 And I will make my covenant between me and thee, and will
multiply thee exceedingly.

17:3 And Abram fell on his face: and God talked with him, saying, 17:4
As for me, behold, my covenant is with thee, and thou shalt be a
father of many nations.

17:5 Neither shall thy name any more be called Abram, but thy name
shall be Abraham; for a father of many nations have I made thee.

17:6 And I will make thee exceeding fruitful, and I will make nations
of thee, and kings shall come out of thee.

17:7 And I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed
after thee in their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be a
God unto thee, and to thy seed after thee.

17:8 And I will give unto thee, and to thy seed after thee, the land
wherein thou art a stranger, all the land of Canaan, for an
everlasting possession; and I will be their God.

17:9 And God said unto Abraham, Thou shalt keep my covenant therefore,
thou, and thy seed after thee in their generations.

17:10 This is my covenant, which ye shall keep, between me and you and
thy seed after thee; Every man child among you shall be circumcised.

17:11 And ye shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin; and it shall
be a token of the covenant betwixt me and you.

17:12 And he that is eight days old shall be circumcised among you,
every man child in your generations, he that is born in the house, or
bought with money of any stranger, which is not of thy seed.

17:13 He that is born in thy house, and he that is bought with thy
money, must needs be circumcised: and my covenant shall be in your
flesh for an everlasting covenant.

17:14 And the uncircumcised man child whose flesh of his foreskin is
not circumcised, that soul shall be cut off from his people; he hath
broken my covenant.

17:15 And God said unto Abraham, As for Sarai thy wife, thou shalt not
call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall her name be.

17:16 And I will bless her, and give thee a son also of her: yea, I
will bless her, and she shall be a mother of nations; kings of people
shall be of her.

17:17 Then Abraham fell upon his face, and laughed, and said in his
heart, Shall a child be born unto him that is an hundred years old?
and shall Sarah, that is ninety years old, bear? 17:18 And Abraham
said unto God, O that Ishmael might live before thee! 17:19 And God
said, Sarah thy wife shall bear thee a son indeed; and thou shalt call
his name Isaac: and I will establish my covenant with him for an
everlasting covenant, and with his seed after him.

17:20 And as for Ishmael, I have heard thee: Behold, I have blessed
him, and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly;
twelve princes shall he beget, and I will make him a great nation.

17:21 But my covenant will I establish with Isaac, which Sarah shall
bear unto thee at this set time in the next year.

17:22 And he left off talking with him, and God went up from Abraham.

17:23 And Abraham took Ishmael his son, and all that were born in his
house, and all that were bought with his money, every male among the
men of Abraham’s house; and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin in
the selfsame day, as God had said unto him.

17:24 And Abraham was ninety years old and nine, when he was
circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.

17:25 And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old, when he was
circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.

17:26 In the selfsame day was Abraham circumcised, and Ishmael his
son.

17:27 And all the men of his house, born in the house, and bought with
money of the stranger, were circumcised with him.

18:1 And the LORD appeared unto him in the plains of Mamre: and he sat
in the tent door in the heat of the day; 18:2 And he lift up his eyes
and looked, and, lo, three men stood by him: and when he saw them, he
ran to meet them from the tent door, and bowed himself toward the
ground, 18:3 And said, My LORD, if now I have found favour in thy
sight, pass not away, I pray thee, from thy servant: 18:4 Let a little
water, I pray you, be fetched, and wash your feet, and rest yourselves
under the tree: 18:5 And I will fetch a morsel of bread, and comfort
ye your hearts; after that ye shall pass on: for therefore are ye come
to your servant. And they said, So do, as thou hast said.

18:6 And Abraham hastened into the tent unto Sarah, and said, Make
ready quickly three measures of fine meal, knead it, and make cakes
upon the hearth.

18:7 And Abraham ran unto the herd, and fetcht a calf tender and good,
and gave it unto a young man; and he hasted to dress it.

18:8 And he took butter, and milk, and the calf which he had dressed,
and set it before them; and he stood by them under the tree, and they
did eat.

18:9 And they said unto him, Where is Sarah thy wife? And he said,
Behold, in the tent.

18:10 And he said, I will certainly return unto thee according to the
time of life; and, lo, Sarah thy wife shall have a son. And Sarah
heard it in the tent door, which was behind him.

18:11 Now Abraham and Sarah were old and well stricken in age; and it
ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women.

18:12 Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I am waxed
old shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also? 18:13 And the LORD
said unto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I of a
surety bear a child, which am old? 18:14 Is any thing too hard for
the LORD? At the time appointed I will return unto thee, according to
the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son.

18:15 Then Sarah denied, saying, I laughed not; for she was afraid.
And he said, Nay; but thou didst laugh.

18:16 And the men rose up from thence, and looked toward Sodom: and
Abraham went with them to bring them on the way.

18:17 And the LORD said, Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I
do; 18:18 Seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty
nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him?
18:19 For I know him, that he will command his children and his
household after him, and they shall keep the way of the LORD, to do
justice and judgment; that the LORD may bring upon Abraham that which
he hath spoken of him.

18:20 And the LORD said, Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is
great, and because their sin is very grievous; 18:21 I will go down
now, and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of
it, which is come unto me; and if not, I will know.

18:22 And the men turned their faces from thence, and went toward
Sodom: but Abraham stood yet before the LORD.

18:23 And Abraham drew near, and said, Wilt thou also destroy the
righteous with the wicked? 18:24 Peradventure there be fifty
righteous within the city: wilt thou also destroy and not spare the
place for the fifty righteous that are therein? 18:25 That be far
from thee to do after this manner, to slay the righteous with the
wicked: and that the righteous should be as the wicked, that be far
from thee: Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right? 18:26 And
the LORD said, If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city,
then I will spare all the place for their sakes.

18:27 And Abraham answered and said, Behold now, I have taken upon me
to speak unto the LORD, which am but dust and ashes: 18:28
Peradventure there shall lack five of the fifty righteous: wilt thou
destroy all the city for lack of five? And he said, If I find there
forty and five, I will not destroy it.

18:29 And he spake unto him yet again, and said, Peradventure there
shall be forty found there. And he said, I will not do it for forty’s
sake.

18:30 And he said unto him, Oh let not the LORD be angry, and I will
speak: Peradventure there shall thirty be found there. And he said, I
will not do it, if I find thirty there.

18:31 And he said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the
LORD: Peradventure there shall be twenty found there. And he said, I
will not destroy it for twenty’s sake.

18:32 And he said, Oh let not the LORD be angry, and I will speak yet
but this once: Peradventure ten shall be found there. And he said, I
will not destroy it for ten’s sake.

18:33 And the LORD went his way, as soon as he had left communing with
Abraham: and Abraham returned unto his place.

19:1 And there came two angels to Sodom at even; and Lot sat in the
gate of Sodom: and Lot seeing them rose up to meet them; and he bowed
himself with his face toward the ground; 19:2 And he said, Behold now,
my lords, turn in, I pray you, into your servant’s house, and tarry
all night, and wash your feet, and ye shall rise up early, and go on
your ways. And they said, Nay; but we will abide in the street all
night.

19:3 And he pressed upon them greatly; and they turned in unto him,
and entered into his house; and he made them a feast, and did bake
unleavened bread, and they did eat.

19:4 But before they lay down, the men of the city, even the men of
Sodom, compassed the house round, both old and young, all the people
from every quarter: 19:5 And they called unto Lot, and said unto him,
Where are the men which came in to thee this night? bring them out
unto us, that we may know them.

19:6 And Lot went out at the door unto them, and shut the door after
him, 19:7 And said, I pray you, brethren, do not so wickedly.

19:8 Behold now, I have two daughters which have not known man; let
me, I pray you, bring them out unto you, and do ye to them as is good
in your eyes: only unto these men do nothing; for therefore came they
under the shadow of my roof.

19:9 And they said, Stand back. And they said again, This one fellow
came in to sojourn, and he will needs be a judge: now will we deal
worse with thee, than with them. And they pressed sore upon the man,
even Lot, and came near to break the door.

19:10 But the men put forth their hand, and pulled Lot into the house
to them, and shut to the door.

19:11 And they smote the men that were at the door of the house with
blindness, both small and great: so that they wearied themselves to
find the door.

19:12 And the men said unto Lot, Hast thou here any besides? son in
law, and thy sons, and thy daughters, and whatsoever thou hast in the
city, bring them out of this place: 19:13 For we will destroy this
place, because the cry of them is waxen great before the face of the
LORD; and the LORD hath sent us to destroy it.

19:14 And Lot went out, and spake unto his sons in law, which married
his daughters, and said, Up, get you out of this place; for the LORD
will destroy this city. But he seemed as one that mocked unto his sons
in law.

19:15 And when the morning arose, then the angels hastened Lot,
saying, Arise, take thy wife, and thy two daughters, which are here;
lest thou be consumed in the iniquity of the city.

19:16 And while he lingered, the men laid hold upon his hand, and upon
the hand of his wife, and upon the hand of his two daughters; the LORD
being merciful unto him: and they brought him forth, and set him
without the city.

19:17 And it came to pass, when they had brought them forth abroad,
that he said, Escape for thy life; look not behind thee, neither stay
thou in all the plain; escape to the mountain, lest thou be consumed.

19:18 And Lot said unto them, Oh, not so, my LORD: 19:19 Behold now,
thy servant hath found grace in thy sight, and thou hast magnified thy
mercy, which thou hast shewed unto me in saving my life; and I cannot
escape to the mountain, lest some evil take me, and I die: 19:20
Behold now, this city is near to flee unto, and it is a little one:
Oh, let me escape thither, (is it not a little one?) and my soul shall
live.

19:21 And he said unto him, See, I have accepted thee concerning this
thing also, that I will not overthrow this city, for the which thou
hast spoken.

19:22 Haste thee, escape thither; for I cannot do anything till thou
be come thither. Therefore the name of the city was called Zoar.

19:23 The sun was risen upon the earth when Lot entered into Zoar.

19:24 Then the LORD rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and
fire from the LORD out of heaven; 19:25 And he overthrew those cities,
and all the plain, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and that
which grew upon the ground.

19:26 But his wife looked back from behind him, and she became a
pillar of salt.

19:27 And Abraham gat up early in the morning to the place where he
stood before the LORD: 19:28 And he looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah,
and toward all the land of the plain, and beheld, and, lo, the smoke
of the country went up as the smoke of a furnace.

19:29 And it came to pass, when God destroyed the cities of the plain,
that God remembered Abraham, and sent Lot out of the midst of the
overthrow, when he overthrew the cities in the which Lot dwelt.

19:30 And Lot went up out of Zoar, and dwelt in the mountain, and his
two daughters with him; for he feared to dwell in Zoar: and he dwelt
in a cave, he and his two daughters.

19:31 And the firstborn said unto the younger, Our father is old, and
there is not a man in the earth to come in unto us after the manner of
all the earth: 19:32 Come, let us make our father drink wine, and we
will lie with him, that we may preserve seed of our father.

19:33 And they made their father drink wine that night: and the
firstborn went in, and lay with her father; and he perceived not when
she lay down, nor when she arose.

19:34 And it came to pass on the morrow, that the firstborn said unto
the younger, Behold, I lay yesternight with my father: let us make him
drink wine this night also; and go thou in, and lie with him, that we
may preserve seed of our father.

19:35 And they made their father drink wine that night also: and the
younger arose, and lay with him; and he perceived not when she lay
down, nor when she arose.

19:36 Thus were both the daughters of Lot with child by their father.

19:37 And the first born bare a son, and called his name Moab: the
same is the father of the Moabites unto this day.

19:38 And the younger, she also bare a son, and called his name
Benammi: the same is the father of the children of Ammon unto this
day.

20:1 And Abraham journeyed from thence toward the south country, and
dwelled between Kadesh and Shur, and sojourned in Gerar.

20:2 And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, She is my sister: and
Abimelech king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah.

20:3 But God came to Abimelech in a dream by night, and said to him,
Behold, thou art but a dead man, for the woman which thou hast taken;
for she is a man’s wife.

20:4 But Abimelech had not come near her: and he said, LORD, wilt thou
slay also a righteous nation? 20:5 Said he not unto me, She is my
sister? and she, even she herself said, He is my brother: in the
integrity of my heart and innocency of my hands have I done this.

20:6 And God said unto him in a dream, Yea, I know that thou didst
this in the integrity of thy heart; for I also withheld thee from
sinning against me: therefore suffered I thee not to touch her.

20:7 Now therefore restore the man his wife; for he is a prophet, and
he shall pray for thee, and thou shalt live: and if thou restore her
not, know thou that thou shalt surely die, thou, and all that are
thine.

20:8 Therefore Abimelech rose early in the morning, and called all his
servants, and told all these things in their ears: and the men were
sore afraid.

20:9 Then Abimelech called Abraham, and said unto him, What hast thou
done unto us? and what have I offended thee, that thou hast brought on
me and on my kingdom a great sin? thou hast done deeds unto me that
ought not to be done.

20:10 And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What sawest thou, that thou
hast done this thing? 20:11 And Abraham said, Because I thought,
Surely the fear of God is not in this place; and they will slay me for
my wife’s sake.

20:12 And yet indeed she is my sister; she is the daughter of my
father, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife.

20:13 And it came to pass, when God caused me to wander from my
father’s house, that I said unto her, This is thy kindness which thou
shalt shew unto me; at every place whither we shall come, say of me,
He is my brother.

20:14 And Abimelech took sheep, and oxen, and menservants, and
womenservants, and gave them unto Abraham, and restored him Sarah his
wife.

20:15 And Abimelech said, Behold, my land is before thee: dwell where
it pleaseth thee.

20:16 And unto Sarah he said, Behold, I have given thy brother a
thousand pieces of silver: behold, he is to thee a covering of the
eyes, unto all that are with thee, and with all other: thus she was
reproved.

20:17 So Abraham prayed unto God: and God healed Abimelech, and his
wife, and his maidservants; and they bare children.

20:18 For the LORD had fast closed up all the wombs of the house of
Abimelech, because of Sarah Abraham’s wife.

21:1 And the LORD visited Sarah as he had said, and the LORD did unto
Sarah as he had spoken.

21:2 For Sarah conceived, and bare Abraham a son in his old age, at
the set time of which God had spoken to him.

21:3 And Abraham called the name of his son that was born unto him,
whom Sarah bare to him, Isaac.

21:4 And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac being eight days old, as
God had commanded him.

21:5 And Abraham was an hundred years old, when his son Isaac was born
unto him.

21:6 And Sarah said, God hath made me to laugh, so that all that hear
will laugh with me.

21:7 And she said, Who would have said unto Abraham, that Sarah should
have given children suck? for I have born him a son in his old age.

21:8 And the child grew, and was weaned: and Abraham made a great
feast the same day that Isaac was weaned.

21:9 And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, which she had born
unto Abraham, mocking.

21:10 Wherefore she said unto Abraham, Cast out this bondwoman and her
son: for the son of this bondwoman shall not be heir with my son, even
with Isaac.

21:11 And the thing was very grievous in Abraham’s sight because of
his son.

21:12 And God said unto Abraham, Let it not be grievous in thy sight
because of the lad, and because of thy bondwoman; in all that Sarah
hath said unto thee, hearken unto her voice; for in Isaac shall thy
seed be called.

21:13 And also of the son of the bondwoman will I make a nation,
because he is thy seed.

21:14 And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and took bread, and a
bottle of water, and gave it unto Hagar, putting it on her shoulder,
and the child, and sent her away: and she departed, and wandered in
the wilderness of Beersheba.

21:15 And the water was spent in the bottle, and she cast the child
under one of the shrubs.

21:16 And she went, and sat her down over against him a good way off,
as it were a bow shot: for she said, Let me not see the death of the
child. And she sat over against him, and lift up her voice, and wept.

21:17 And God heard the voice of the lad; and the angel of God called
to Hagar out of heaven, and said unto her, What aileth thee, Hagar?
fear not; for God hath heard the voice of the lad where he is.

21:18 Arise, lift up the lad, and hold him in thine hand; for I will
make him a great nation.

21:19 And God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water; and she
went, and filled the bottle with water, and gave the lad drink.

21:20 And God was with the lad; and he grew, and dwelt in the
wilderness, and became an archer.

21:21 And he dwelt in the wilderness of Paran: and his mother took him
a wife out of the land of Egypt.

21:22 And it came to pass at that time, that Abimelech and Phichol the
chief captain of his host spake unto Abraham, saying, God is with thee
in all that thou doest: 21:23 Now therefore swear unto me here by God
that thou wilt not deal falsely with me, nor with my son, nor with my
son’s son: but according to the kindness that I have done unto thee,
thou shalt do unto me, and to the land wherein thou hast sojourned.

21:24 And Abraham said, I will swear.

21:25 And Abraham reproved Abimelech because of a well of water, which
Abimelech’s servants had violently taken away.

21:26 And Abimelech said, I wot not who hath done this thing; neither
didst thou tell me, neither yet heard I of it, but to day.

21:27 And Abraham took sheep and oxen, and gave them unto Abimelech;
and both of them made a covenant.

21:28 And Abraham set seven ewe lambs of the flock by themselves.

21:29 And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What mean these seven ewe lambs
which thou hast set by themselves? 21:30 And he said, For these seven
ewe lambs shalt thou take of my hand, that they may be a witness unto
me, that I have digged this well.

21:31 Wherefore he called that place Beersheba; because there they
sware both of them.

21:32 Thus they made a covenant at Beersheba: then Abimelech rose up,
and Phichol the chief captain of his host, and they returned into the
land of the Philistines.

21:33 And Abraham planted a grove in Beersheba, and called there on
the name of the LORD, the everlasting God.

21:34 And Abraham sojourned in the Philistines’ land many days.

22:1 And it came to pass after these things, that God did tempt
Abraham, and said unto him, Abraham: and he said, Behold, here I am.

22:2 And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou
lovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah; and offer him there for
a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of.

22:3 And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and saddled his ass,
and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son, and clave
the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up, and went unto the place
of which God had told him.

22:4 Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes, and saw the
place afar off.

22:5 And Abraham said unto his young men, Abide ye here with the ass;
and I and the lad will go yonder and worship, and come again to you.

22:6 And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering, and laid it upon
Isaac his son; and he took the fire in his hand, and a knife; and they
went both of them together.

22:7 And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father, and said, My father: and
he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the wood:
but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? 22:8 And Abraham said, My
son, God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering: so they
went both of them together.

22:9 And they came to the place which God had told him of; and Abraham
built an altar there, and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his
son, and laid him on the altar upon the wood.

22:10 And Abraham stretched forth his hand, and took the knife to slay
his son.

22:11 And the angel of the LORD called unto him out of heaven, and
said, Abraham, Abraham: and he said, Here am I.

22:12 And he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thou
any thing unto him: for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou
hast not withheld thy son, thine only son from me.

22:13 And Abraham lifted up his eyes, and looked, and behold behind
him a ram caught in a thicket by his horns: and Abraham went and took
the ram, and offered him up for a burnt offering in the stead of his
son.

22:14 And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovahjireh: as it is
said to this day, In the mount of the LORD it shall be seen.

22:15 And the angel of the LORD called unto Abraham out of heaven the
second time, 22:16 And said, By myself have I sworn, saith the LORD,
for because thou hast done this thing, and hast not withheld thy son,
thine only son: 22:17 That in blessing I will bless thee, and in
multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven, and
as the sand which is upon the sea shore; and thy seed shall possess
the gate of his enemies; 22:18 And in thy seed shall all the nations
of the earth be blessed; because thou hast obeyed my voice.

22:19 So Abraham returned unto his young men, and they rose up and
went together to Beersheba; and Abraham dwelt at Beersheba.

22:20 And it came to pass after these things, that it was told
Abraham, saying, Behold, Milcah, she hath also born children unto thy
brother Nahor; 22:21 Huz his firstborn, and Buz his brother, and
Kemuel the father of Aram, 22:22 And Chesed, and Hazo, and Pildash,
and Jidlaph, and Bethuel.

22:23 And Bethuel begat Rebekah: these eight Milcah did bear to Nahor,
Abraham’s brother.

22:24 And his concubine, whose name was Reumah, she bare also Tebah,
and Gaham, and Thahash, and Maachah.

23:1 And Sarah was an hundred and seven and twenty years old: these
were the years of the life of Sarah.

23:2 And Sarah died in Kirjatharba; the same is Hebron in the land of
Canaan: and Abraham came to mourn for Sarah, and to weep for her.

23:3 And Abraham stood up from before his dead, and spake unto the
sons of Heth, saying, 23:4 I am a stranger and a sojourner with you:
give me a possession of a buryingplace with you, that I may bury my
dead out of my sight.

23:5 And the children of Heth answered Abraham, saying unto him, 23:6
Hear us, my lord: thou art a mighty prince among us: in the choice of
our sepulchres bury thy dead; none of us shall withhold from thee his
sepulchre, but that thou mayest bury thy dead.

23:7 And Abraham stood up, and bowed himself to the people of the
land, even to the children of Heth.

23:8 And he communed with them, saying, If it be your mind that I
should bury my dead out of my sight; hear me, and intreat for me to
Ephron the son of Zohar, 23:9 That he may give me the cave of
Machpelah, which he hath, which is in the end of his field; for as
much money as it is worth he shall give it me for a possession of a
buryingplace amongst you.

23:10 And Ephron dwelt among the children of Heth: and Ephron the
Hittite answered Abraham in the audience of the children of Heth, even
of all that went in at the gate of his city, saying, 23:11 Nay, my
lord, hear me: the field give I thee, and the cave that is therein, I
give it thee; in the presence of the sons of my people give I it thee:
bury thy dead.

23:12 And Abraham bowed down himself before the people of the land.

23:13 And he spake unto Ephron in the audience of the people of the
land, saying, But if thou wilt give it, I pray thee, hear me: I will
give thee money for the field; take it of me, and I will bury my dead
there.

23:14 And Ephron answered Abraham, saying unto him, 23:15 My lord,
hearken unto me: the land is worth four hundred shekels of silver;
what is that betwixt me and thee? bury therefore thy dead.

23:16 And Abraham hearkened unto Ephron; and Abraham weighed to Ephron
the silver, which he had named in the audience of the sons of Heth,
four hundred shekels of silver, current money with the merchant.

23:17 And the field of Ephron which was in Machpelah, which was before
Mamre, the field, and the cave which was therein, and all the trees
that were in the field, that were in all the borders round about, were
made sure 23:18 Unto Abraham for a possession in the presence of the
children of Heth, before all that went in at the gate of his city.

23:19 And after this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the
field of Machpelah before Mamre: the same is Hebron in the land of
Canaan.

23:20 And the field, and the cave that is therein, were made sure unto
Abraham for a possession of a buryingplace by the sons of Heth.

24:1 And Abraham was old, and well stricken in age: and the LORD had
blessed Abraham in all things.

24:2 And Abraham said unto his eldest servant of his house, that ruled
over all that he had, Put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh: 24:3
And I will make thee swear by the LORD, the God of heaven, and the God
of the earth, that thou shalt not take a wife unto my son of the
daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I dwell: 24:4 But thou shalt
go unto my country, and to my kindred, and take a wife unto my son
Isaac.

24:5 And the servant said unto him, Peradventure the woman will not be
willing to follow me unto this land: must I needs bring thy son again
unto the land from whence thou camest? 24:6 And Abraham said unto
him, Beware thou that thou bring not my son thither again.

24:7 The LORD God of heaven, which took me from my father’s house, and
from the land of my kindred, and which spake unto me, and that sware
unto me, saying, Unto thy seed will I give this land; he shall send
his angel before thee, and thou shalt take a wife unto my son from
thence.

24:8 And if the woman will not be willing to follow thee, then thou
shalt be clear from this my oath: only bring not my son thither again.

24:9 And the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his
master, and sware to him concerning that matter.

24:10 And the servant took ten camels of the camels of his master, and
departed; for all the goods of his master were in his hand: and he
arose, and went to Mesopotamia, unto the city of Nahor.

24:11 And he made his camels to kneel down without the city by a well
of water at the time of the evening, even the time that women go out
to draw water.

24:12 And he said O LORD God of my master Abraham, I pray thee, send
me good speed this day, and shew kindness unto my master Abraham.

24:13 Behold, I stand here by the well of water; and the daughters of
the men of the city come out to draw water: 24:14 And let it come to
pass, that the damsel to whom I shall say, Let down thy pitcher, I
pray thee, that I may drink; and she shall say, Drink, and I will give
thy camels drink also: let the same be she that thou hast appointed
for thy servant Isaac; and thereby shall I know that thou hast shewed
kindness unto my master.

24:15 And it came to pass, before he had done speaking, that, behold,
Rebekah came out, who was born to Bethuel, son of Milcah, the wife of
Nahor, Abraham’s brother, with her pitcher upon her shoulder.

24:16 And the damsel was very fair to look upon, a virgin, neither had
any man known her: and she went down to the well, and filled her
pitcher, and came up.

24:17 And the servant ran to meet her, and said, Let me, I pray thee,
drink a little water of thy pitcher.

24:18 And she said, Drink, my lord: and she hasted, and let down her
pitcher upon her hand, and gave him drink.

24:19 And when she had done giving him drink, she said, I will draw
water for thy camels also, until they have done drinking.

24:20 And she hasted, and emptied her pitcher into the trough, and ran
again unto the well to draw water, and drew for all his camels.

24:21 And the man wondering at her held his peace, to wit whether the
LORD had made his journey prosperous or not.

24:22 And it came to pass, as the camels had done drinking, that the
man took a golden earring of half a shekel weight, and two bracelets
for her hands of ten shekels weight of gold; 24:23 And said, Whose
daughter art thou? tell me, I pray thee: is there room in thy father’s
house for us to lodge in? 24:24 And she said unto him, I am the
daughter of Bethuel the son of Milcah, which she bare unto Nahor.

24:25 She said moreover unto him, We have both straw and provender
enough, and room to lodge in.

24:26 And the man bowed down his head, and worshipped the LORD.

24:27 And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of my master Abraham, who
hath not left destitute my master of his mercy and his truth: I being
in the way, the LORD led me to the house of my master’s brethren.

24:28 And the damsel ran, and told them of her mother’s house these
things.

24:29 And Rebekah had a brother, and his name was Laban: and Laban ran
out unto the man, unto the well.

24:30 And it came to pass, when he saw the earring and bracelets upon
his sister’s hands, and when he heard the words of Rebekah his sister,
saying, Thus spake the man unto me; that he came unto the man; and,
behold, he stood by the camels at the well.

24:31 And he said, Come in, thou blessed of the LORD; wherefore
standest thou without? for I have prepared the house, and room for the
camels.

24:32 And the man came into the house: and he ungirded his camels, and
gave straw and provender for the camels, and water to wash his feet,
and the men’s feet that were with him.

24:33 And there was set meat before him to eat: but he said, I will
not eat, until I have told mine errand. And he said, Speak on.

24:34 And he said, I am Abraham’s servant.

24:35 And the LORD hath blessed my master greatly; and he is become
great: and he hath given him flocks, and herds, and silver, and gold,
and menservants, and maidservants, and camels, and asses.

24:36 And Sarah my master’s wife bare a son to my master when she was
old: and unto him hath he given all that he hath.

24:37 And my master made me swear, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife
to my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I dwell:
24:38 But thou shalt go unto my father’s house, and to my kindred, and
take a wife unto my son.

24:39 And I said unto my master, Peradventure the woman will not
follow me.

24:40 And he said unto me, The LORD, before whom I walk, will send his
angel with thee, and prosper thy way; and thou shalt take a wife for
my son of my kindred, and of my father’s house: 24:41 Then shalt thou
be clear from this my oath, when thou comest to my kindred; and if
they give not thee one, thou shalt be clear from my oath.

24:42 And I came this day unto the well, and said, O LORD God of my
master Abraham, if now thou do prosper my way which I go: 24:43
Behold, I stand by the well of water; and it shall come to pass, that
when the virgin cometh forth to draw water, and I say to her, Give me,
I pray thee, a little water of thy pitcher to drink; 24:44 And she say
to me, Both drink thou, and I will also draw for thy camels: let the
same be the woman whom the LORD hath appointed out for my master’s
son.

24:45 And before I had done speaking in mine heart, behold, Rebekah
came forth with her pitcher on her shoulder; and she went down unto
the well, and drew water: and I said unto her, Let me drink, I pray
thee.

24:46 And she made haste, and let down her pitcher from her shoulder,
and said, Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also: so I drank,
and she made the camels drink also.

24:47 And I asked her, and said, Whose daughter art thou? And she
said, the daughter of Bethuel, Nahor’s son, whom Milcah bare unto him:
and I put the earring upon her face, and the bracelets upon her hands.

24:48 And I bowed down my head, and worshipped the LORD, and blessed
the LORD God of my master Abraham, which had led me in the right way
to take my master’s brother’s daughter unto his son.

24:49 And now if ye will deal kindly and truly with my master, tell
me: and if not, tell me; that I may turn to the right hand, or to the
left.

24:50 Then Laban and Bethuel answered and said, The thing proceedeth
from the LORD: we cannot speak unto thee bad or good.
The man with the dartboard was the Blue Fairy Godmother who had injured little Paul 
Lazzaro. He stopped by Lazzaro's bed, asked Lazzaro how he was. 

Lazzaro told him he was going to have him killed after the war. 

'Oh? ’ 

'You made a big mistake,' said Lazzaro. 'Anybody touches me, he better kill me, or I'm 
gonna have him killed.’ 

The Blue Fairy Godmother knew something about killing. He gave Lazzaro a careful 
smile. 'There is still time for me to kill you,' he said, 'if you really persuade me that it's 
the sensible thing to do.' 

'Why don’t you go fuck yourself?' 

'Don't think I haven’t tried,’ the Blue Fairy Godmother answered. 

The Blue Fairy Godmother left, amused and patronizing. When he was gone, Lazzaro 
promised Billy and poor old Edgar Derby that he was going to have revenge, and that 
revenge was sweet. 

'It's the sweetest thing there is,' said Lazzaro. 'People fuck with me,' he said, 'and Jesus 
Christ are they ever fucking sorry. I laugh like hell. I don't care if it's a guy or a dame. If 
the President of the United States fucked around with me. I’d fix him good. You should 
have seen what I did to a dog one time.' 

'A dog?' said Billy. 

24:51 Behold, Rebekah is before thee, take her, and go, and let her be
thy master’s son’s wife, as the LORD hath spoken.

24:52 And it came to pass, that, when Abraham’s servant heard their
words, he worshipped the LORD, bowing himself to the earth.

24:53 And the servant brought forth jewels of silver, and jewels of
gold, and raiment, and gave them to Rebekah: he gave also to her
brother and to her mother precious things.

24:54 And they did eat and drink, he and the men that were with him,
and tarried all night; and they rose up in the morning, and he said,
Send me away unto my master.

24:55 And her brother and her mother said, Let the damsel abide with
us a few days, at the least ten; after that she shall go.

24:56 And he said unto them, Hinder me not, seeing the LORD hath
prospered my way; send me away that I may go to my master.

24:57 And they said, We will call the damsel, and enquire at her
mouth.

24:58 And they called Rebekah, and said unto her, Wilt thou go with
this man? And she said, I will go.

24:59 And they sent away Rebekah their sister, and her nurse, and
Abraham’s servant, and his men.

24:60 And they blessed Rebekah, and said unto her, Thou art our
sister, be thou the mother of thousands of millions, and let thy seed
possess the gate of those which hate them.

24:61 And Rebekah arose, and her damsels, and they rode upon the
camels, and followed the man: and the servant took Rebekah, and went
his way.

24:62 And Isaac came from the way of the well Lahairoi; for he dwelt
in the south country.

24:63 And Isaac went out to meditate in the field at the eventide: and
he lifted up his eyes, and saw, and, behold, the camels were coming.

24:64 And Rebekah lifted up her eyes, and when she saw Isaac, she
lighted off the camel.

24:65 For she had said unto the servant, What man is this that walketh
in the field to meet us? And the servant had said, It is my master:
therefore she took a vail, and covered herself.

24:66 And the servant told Isaac all things that he had done.

24:67 And Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah’s tent, and took
Rebekah, and she became his wife; and he loved her: and Isaac was
comforted after his mother’s death.

25:1 Then again Abraham took a wife, and her name was Keturah.

25:2 And she bare him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and
Ishbak, and Shuah.

25:3 And Jokshan begat Sheba, and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were
Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim.

25:4 And the sons of Midian; Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abidah,
and Eldaah. All these were the children of Keturah.

25:5 And Abraham gave all that he had unto Isaac.

25:6 But unto the sons of the concubines, which Abraham had, Abraham
gave gifts, and sent them away from Isaac his son, while he yet lived,
eastward, unto the east country.

25:7 And these are the days of the years of Abraham’s life which he
lived, an hundred threescore and fifteen years.

25:8 Then Abraham gave up the ghost, and died in a good old age, an
old man, and full of years; and was gathered to his people.

25:9 And his sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of
Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, which
is before Mamre; 25:10 The field which Abraham purchased of the sons
of Heth: there was Abraham buried, and Sarah his wife.

25:11 And it came to pass after the death of Abraham, that God blessed
his son Isaac; and Isaac dwelt by the well Lahairoi.

25:12 Now these are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham’s son, whom
Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah’s handmaid, bare unto Abraham: 25:13 And
these are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names, according
to their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebajoth; and Kedar,
and Adbeel, and Mibsam, 25:14 And Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa, 25:15
Hadar, and Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah: 25:16 These are the sons
of Ishmael, and these are their names, by their towns, and by their
castles; twelve princes according to their nations.

25:17 And these are the years of the life of Ishmael, an hundred and
thirty and seven years: and he gave up the ghost and died; and was
gathered unto his people.

25:18 And they dwelt from Havilah unto Shur, that is before Egypt, as
thou goest toward Assyria: and he died in the presence of all his
brethren.

25:19 And these are the generations of Isaac, Abraham’s son: Abraham
begat Isaac: 25:20 And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah
to wife, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Padanaram, the sister
to Laban the Syrian.

25:21 And Isaac intreated the LORD for his wife, because she was
barren: and the LORD was intreated of him, and Rebekah his wife
conceived.

25:22 And the children struggled together within her; and she said, If
it be so, why am I thus? And she went to enquire of the LORD.

25:23 And the LORD said unto her, Two nations are in thy womb, and two
manner of people shall be separated from thy bowels; and the one
people shall be stronger than the other people; and the elder shall
serve the younger.

25:24 And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there
were twins in her womb.

25:25 And the first came out red, all over like an hairy garment; and
they called his name Esau.

25:26 And after that came his brother out, and his hand took hold on
Esau’s heel; and his name was called Jacob: and Isaac was threescore
years old when she bare them.

25:27 And the boys grew: and Esau was a cunning hunter, a man of the
field; and Jacob was a plain man, dwelling in tents.

25:28 And Isaac loved Esau, because he did eat of his venison: but
Rebekah loved Jacob.

25:29 And Jacob sod pottage: and Esau came from the field, and he was
faint: 25:30 And Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with that
same red pottage; for I am faint: therefore was his name called Edom.

25:31 And Jacob said, Sell me this day thy birthright.

25:32 And Esau said, Behold, I am at the point to die: and what profit
shall this birthright do to me? 25:33 And Jacob said, Swear to me
this day; and he sware unto him: and he sold his birthright unto
Jacob.

25:34 Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentiles; and he did
eat and drink, and rose up, and went his way: thus Esau despised his
birthright.

26:1 And there was a famine in the land, beside the first famine that
was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went unto Abimelech king of the
Philistines unto Gerar.

26:2 And the LORD appeared unto him, and said, Go not down into Egypt;
dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of: 26:3 Sojourn in this
land, and I will be with thee, and will bless thee; for unto thee, and
unto thy seed, I will give all these countries, and I will perform the
oath which I sware unto Abraham thy father; 26:4 And I will make thy
seed to multiply as the stars of heaven, and will give unto thy seed
all these countries; and in thy seed shall all the nations of the
earth be blessed; 26:5 Because that Abraham obeyed my voice, and kept
my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws.

26:6 And Isaac dwelt in Gerar: 26:7 And the men of the place asked him
of his wife; and he said, She is my sister: for he feared to say, She
is my wife; lest, said he, the men of the place should kill me for
Rebekah; because she was fair to look upon.

26:8 And it came to pass, when he had been there a long time, that
Abimelech king of the Philistines looked out at a window, and saw,
and, behold, Isaac was sporting with Rebekah his wife.

26:9 And Abimelech called Isaac, and said, Behold, of a surety she is
thy wife; and how saidst thou, She is my sister? And Isaac said unto
him, Because I said, Lest I die for her.

26:10 And Abimelech said, What is this thou hast done unto us? one of
the people might lightly have lien with thy wife, and thou shouldest
have brought guiltiness upon us.

26:11 And Abimelech charged all his people, saying, He that toucheth
this man or his wife shall surely be put to death.

26:12 Then Isaac sowed in that land, and received in the same year an
hundredfold: and the LORD blessed him.

26:13 And the man waxed great, and went forward, and grew until he
became very great: 26:14 For he had possession of flocks, and
possession of herds, and great store of servants: and the Philistines
envied him.

26:15 For all the wells which his father’s servants had digged in the
days of Abraham his father, the Philistines had stopped them, and
filled them with earth.

26:16 And Abimelech said unto Isaac, Go from us; for thou art much
mightier than we.

26:17 And Isaac departed thence, and pitched his tent in the valley of
Gerar, and dwelt there.

26:18 And Isaac digged again the wells of water, which they had digged
in the days of Abraham his father; for the Philistines had stopped
them after the death of Abraham: and he called their names after the
names by which his father had called them.

26:19 And Isaac’s servants digged in the valley, and found there a
well of springing water.

26:20 And the herdmen of Gerar did strive with Isaac’s herdmen,
saying, The water is ours: and he called the name of the well Esek;
because they strove with him.

26:21 And they digged another well, and strove for that also: and he
called the name of it Sitnah.

26:22 And he removed from thence, and digged another well; and for
that they strove not: and he called the name of it Rehoboth; and he
said, For now the LORD hath made room for us, and we shall be fruitful
in the land.

26:23 And he went up from thence to Beersheba.

26:24 And the LORD appeared unto him the same night, and said, I am
the God of Abraham thy father: fear not, for I am with thee, and will
bless thee, and multiply thy seed for my servant Abraham’s sake.

26:25 And he builded an altar there, and called upon the name of the
LORD, and pitched his tent there: and there Isaac’s servants digged a
well.

26:26 Then Abimelech went to him from Gerar, and Ahuzzath one of his
friends, and Phichol the chief captain of his army.

26:27 And Isaac said unto them, Wherefore come ye to me, seeing ye
hate me, and have sent me away from you? 26:28 And they said, We saw
certainly that the LORD was with thee: and we said, Let there be now
an oath betwixt us, even betwixt us and thee, and let us make a
covenant with thee; 26:29 That thou wilt do us no hurt, as we have not
touched thee, and as we have done unto thee nothing but good, and have
sent thee away in peace: thou art now the blessed of the LORD.

26:30 And he made them a feast, and they did eat and drink.

26:31 And they rose up betimes in the morning, and sware one to
another: and Isaac sent them away, and they departed from him in
peace.

26:32 And it came to pass the same day, that Isaac’s servants came,
and told him concerning the well which they had digged, and said unto
him, We have found water.

26:33 And he called it Shebah: therefore the name of the city is
Beersheba unto this day.

26:34 And Esau was forty years old when he took to wife Judith the
daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Bashemath the daughter of Elon the
Hittite: 26:35 Which were a grief of mind unto Isaac and to Rebekah.

27:1 And it came to pass, that when Isaac was old, and his eyes were
dim, so that he could not see, he called Esau his eldest son, and said
unto him, My son: and he said unto him, Behold, here am I.

27:2 And he said, Behold now, I am old, I know not the day of my
death: 27:3 Now therefore take, I pray thee, thy weapons, thy quiver
and thy bow, and go out to the field, and take me some venison; 27:4
And make me savoury meat, such as I love, and bring it to me, that I
may eat; that my soul may bless thee before I die.


27:20 And Isaac said unto his son, How is it that thou hast found it
so quickly, my son? And he said, Because the LORD thy God brought it
to me.

27:21 And Isaac said unto Jacob, Come near, I pray thee, that I may
feel thee, my son, whether thou be my very son Esau or not.

27:22 And Jacob went near unto Isaac his father; and he felt him, and
said, The voice is Jacob’s voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau.

27:23 And he discerned him not, because his hands were hairy, as his
brother Esau’s hands: so he blessed him.

27:24 And he said, Art thou my very son Esau? And he said, I am.

27:25 And he said, Bring it near to me, and I will eat of my son’s
venison, that my soul may bless thee. And he brought it near to him,
and he did eat: and he brought him wine and he drank.

27:26 And his father Isaac said unto him, Come near now, and kiss me,
my son.

27:27 And he came near, and kissed him: and he smelled the smell of
his raiment, and blessed him, and said, See, the smell of my son is as
the smell of a field which the LORD hath blessed: 27:28 Therefore God
give thee of the dew of heaven, and the fatness of the earth, and
plenty of corn and wine: 27:29 Let people serve thee, and nations bow
down to thee: be lord over thy brethren, and let thy mother’s sons bow
down to thee: cursed be every one that curseth thee, and blessed be he
that blesseth thee.

27:30 And it came to pass, as soon as Isaac had made an end of
blessing Jacob, and Jacob was yet scarce gone out from the presence of
Isaac his father, that Esau his brother came in from his hunting.

27:31 And he also had made savoury meat, and brought it unto his
father, and said unto his father, Let my father arise, and eat of his
son’s venison, that thy soul may bless me.

27:32 And Isaac his father said unto him, Who art thou? And he said, I
am thy son, thy firstborn Esau.

27:33 And Isaac trembled very exceedingly, and said, Who? where is he
that hath taken venison, and brought it me, and I have eaten of all
before thou camest, and have blessed him? yea, and he shall be
blessed.

27:34 And when Esau heard the words of his father, he cried with a
great and exceeding bitter cry, and said unto his father, Bless me,
even me also, O my father.

27:35 And he said, Thy brother came with subtilty, and hath taken away
thy blessing.

27:36 And he said, Is not he rightly named Jacob? for he hath
supplanted me these two times: he took away my birthright; and,
behold, now he hath taken away my blessing. And he said, Hast thou not
reserved a blessing for me? 27:37 And Isaac answered and said unto
Esau, Behold, I have made him thy lord, and all his brethren have I
given to him for servants; and with corn and wine have I sustained
him: and what shall I do now unto thee, my son? 27:38 And Esau said
unto his father, Hast thou but one blessing, my father? bless me, even
me also, O my father. And Esau lifted up his voice, and wept.

27:39 And Isaac his father answered and said unto him, Behold, thy
dwelling shall be the fatness of the earth, and of the dew of heaven
from above; 27:40 And by thy sword shalt thou live, and shalt serve
thy brother; and it shall come to pass when thou shalt have the
dominion, that thou shalt break his yoke from off thy neck.

27:41 And Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing wherewith his
father blessed him: and Esau said in his heart, The days of mourning
for my father are at hand; then will I slay my brother Jacob.

27:42 And these words of Esau her elder son were told to Rebekah: and
she sent and called Jacob her younger son, and said unto him, Behold,
thy brother Esau, as touching thee, doth comfort himself, purposing to
kill thee.

27:43 Now therefore, my son, obey my voice; arise, flee thou to Laban
my brother to Haran; 27:44 And tarry with him a few days, until thy
brother’s fury turn away; 27:45 Until thy brother’s anger turn away
from thee, and he forget that which thou hast done to him: then I will
send, and fetch thee from thence: why should I be deprived also of you
both in one day? 27:46 And Rebekah said to Isaac, I am weary of my
life because of the daughters of Heth: if Jacob take a wife of the
daughters of Heth, such as these which are of the daughters of the
land, what good shall my life do me? 28:1 And Isaac called Jacob, and
blessed him, and charged him, and said unto him, Thou shalt not take a
wife of the daughters of Canaan.

28:2 Arise, go to Padanaram, to the house of Bethuel thy mother’s
father; and take thee a wife from thence of the daughters of Laban thy
mother’s brother.

28:3 And God Almighty bless thee, and make thee fruitful, and multiply
thee, that thou mayest be a multitude of people; 28:4 And give thee
the blessing of Abraham, to thee, and to thy seed with thee; that thou
mayest inherit the land wherein thou art a stranger, which God gave
unto Abraham.

28:5 And Isaac sent away Jacob: and he went to Padanaram unto Laban,
son of Bethuel the Syrian, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob’s and Esau’s
mother.

28:6 When Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob, and sent him away to
Padanaram, to take him a wife from thence; and that as he blessed him
he gave him a charge, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife of the
daughters of Canaan; 28:7 And that Jacob obeyed his father and his
mother, and was gone to Padanaram; 28:8 And Esau seeing that the
daughters of Canaan pleased not Isaac his father; 28:9 Then went Esau
unto Ishmael, and took unto the wives which he had Mahalath the
daughter of Ishmael Abraham’s son, the sister of Nebajoth, to be his
wife.

28:10 And Jacob went out from Beersheba, and went toward Haran.

28:11 And he lighted upon a certain place, and tarried there all
night, because the sun was set; and he took of the stones of that
place, and put them for his pillows, and lay down in that place to
sleep.

28:12 And he dreamed, and behold a ladder set up on the earth, and the
top of it reached to heaven: and behold the angels of God ascending
and descending on it.

28:13 And, behold, the LORD stood above it, and said, I am the LORD
God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac: the land whereon thou
liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed; 28:14 And thy seed
shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt spread abroad to the
west, and to the east, and to the north, and to the south: and in thee
and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed.

28:15 And, behold, I am with thee, and will keep thee in all places
whither thou goest, and will bring thee again into this land; for I
will not leave thee, until I have done that which I have spoken to
thee of.

28:16 And Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said, Surely the LORD
is in this place; and I knew it not.

28:17 And he was afraid, and said, How dreadful is this place! this is
none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.

28:18 And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone that
he had put for his pillows, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil
upon the top of it.

28:19 And he called the name of that place Bethel: but the name of
that city was called Luz at the first.

28:20 And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be with me, and will
keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat, and
raiment to put on, 28:21 So that I come again to my father’s house in
peace; then shall the LORD be my God: 28:22 And this stone, which I
have set for a pillar, shall be God’s house: and of all that thou
shalt give me I will surely give the tenth unto thee.

29:1 Then Jacob went on his journey, and came into the land of the
people of the east.

29:2 And he looked, and behold a well in the field, and, lo, there
were three flocks of sheep lying by it; for out of that well they
watered the flocks: and a great stone was upon the well’s mouth.

29:3 And thither were all the flocks gathered: and they rolled the
stone from the well’s mouth, and watered the sheep, and put the stone
again upon the well’s mouth in his place.

29:4 And Jacob said unto them, My brethren, whence be ye? And they
said, Of Haran are we.

29:5 And he said unto them, Know ye Laban the son of Nahor? And they
said, We know him.

29:6 And he said unto them, Is he well? And they said, He is well:
and, behold, Rachel his daughter cometh with the sheep.

29:7 And he said, Lo, it is yet high day, neither is it time that the
cattle should be gathered together: water ye the sheep, and go and
feed them.

29:8 And they said, We cannot, until all the flocks be gathered
together, and till they roll the stone from the well’s mouth; then we
water the sheep.

29:9 And while he yet spake with them, Rachel came with her father’s
sheep; for she kept them.

29:10 And it came to pass, when Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Laban
his mother’s brother, and the sheep of Laban his mother’s brother,
that Jacob went near, and rolled the stone from the well’s mouth, and
watered the flock of Laban his mother’s brother.

29:11 And Jacob kissed Rachel, and lifted up his voice, and wept.

29:12 And Jacob told Rachel that he was her father’s brother, and that
he was Rebekah’s son: and she ran and told her father.

29:13 And it came to pass, when Laban heard the tidings of Jacob his
sister’s son, that he ran to meet him, and embraced him, and kissed
him, and brought him to his house. And he told Laban all these things.

29:14 And Laban said to him, Surely thou art my bone and my flesh. And
he abode with him the space of a month.

29:15 And Laban said unto Jacob, Because thou art my brother,
shouldest thou therefore serve me for nought? tell me, what shall thy
wages be? 29:16 And Laban had two daughters: the name of the elder
was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel.

29:17 Leah was tender eyed; but Rachel was beautiful and well
favoured.

29:18 And Jacob loved Rachel; and said, I will serve thee seven years
for Rachel thy younger daughter.

29:19 And Laban said, It is better that I give her to thee, than that
I should give her to another man: abide with me.

29:20 And Jacob served seven years for Rachel; and they seemed unto
him but a few days, for the love he had to her.

29:21 And Jacob said unto Laban, Give me my wife, for my days are
fulfilled, that I may go in unto her.

29:22 And Laban gathered together all the men of the place, and made a
feast.

29:23 And it came to pass in the evening, that he took Leah his
daughter, and brought her to him; and he went in unto her.

29:24 And Laban gave unto his daughter Leah Zilpah his maid for an
handmaid.

29:25 And it came to pass, that in the morning, behold, it was Leah:
and he said to Laban, What is this thou hast done unto me? did not I
serve with thee for Rachel? wherefore then hast thou beguiled me?
29:26 And Laban said, It must not be so done in our country, to give
the younger before the firstborn.

29:27 Fulfil her week, and we will give thee this also for the service
which thou shalt serve with me yet seven other years.

29:28 And Jacob did so, and fulfilled her week: and he gave him Rachel
his daughter to wife also.

29:29 And Laban gave to Rachel his daughter Bilhah his handmaid to be
her maid.

29:30 And he went in also unto Rachel, and he loved also Rachel more
than Leah, and served with him yet seven other years.

29:31 And when the LORD saw that Leah was hated, he opened her womb:
but Rachel was barren.

29:32 And Leah conceived, and bare a son, and she called his name
Reuben: for she said, Surely the LORD hath looked upon my affliction;
now therefore my husband will love me.

29:33 And she conceived again, and bare a son; and said, Because the
LORD hath heard I was hated, he hath therefore given me this son also:
and she called his name Simeon.

29:34 And she conceived again, and bare a son; and said, Now this time
will my husband be joined unto me, because I have born him three sons:
therefore was his name called Levi.

29:35 And she conceived again, and bare a son: and she said, Now will
I praise the LORD: therefore she called his name Judah; and left
bearing.

30:1 And when Rachel saw that she bare Jacob no children, Rachel
envied her sister; and said unto Jacob, Give me children, or else I
die.

30:2 And Jacob’s anger was kindled against Rachel: and he said, Am I
in God’s stead, who hath withheld from thee the fruit of the womb?
30:3 And she said, Behold my maid Bilhah, go in unto her; and she
shall bear upon my knees, that I may also have children by her.

30:4 And she gave him Bilhah her handmaid to wife: and Jacob went in
unto her.

30:5 And Bilhah conceived, and bare Jacob a son.

30:6 And Rachel said, God hath judged me, and hath also heard my
voice, and hath given me a son: therefore called she his name Dan.

30:7 And Bilhah Rachel’s maid conceived again, and bare Jacob a second
son.

30:8 And Rachel said, With great wrestlings have I wrestled with my
sister, and I have prevailed: and she called his name Naphtali.

30:9 When Leah saw that she had left bearing, she took Zilpah her
maid, and gave her Jacob to wife.

30:10 And Zilpah Leah’s maid bare Jacob a son.

30:11 And Leah said, A troop cometh: and she called his name Gad.

30:12 And Zilpah Leah’s maid bare Jacob a second son.

30:13 And Leah said, Happy am I, for the daughters will call me
blessed: and she called his name Asher.

30:14 And Reuben went in the days of wheat harvest, and found
mandrakes in the field, and brought them unto his mother Leah. Then
Rachel said to Leah, Give me, I pray thee, of thy son’s mandrakes.

30:15 And she said unto her, Is it a small matter that thou hast taken
my husband? and wouldest thou take away my son’s mandrakes also? And
Rachel said, Therefore he shall lie with thee to night for thy son’s
mandrakes.

30:16 And Jacob came out of the field in the evening, and Leah went
out to meet him, and said, Thou must come in unto me; for surely I
have hired thee with my son’s mandrakes. And he lay with her that
night.

30:17 And God hearkened unto Leah, and she conceived, and bare Jacob
the fifth son.

30:18 And Leah said, God hath given me my hire, because I have given
my maiden to my husband: and she called his name Issachar.

30:19 And Leah conceived again, and bare Jacob the sixth son.

30:20 And Leah said, God hath endued me with a good dowry; now will my
husband dwell with me, because I have born him six sons: and she
called his name Zebulun.

30:21 And afterwards she bare a daughter, and called her name Dinah.

30:22 And God remembered Rachel, and God hearkened to her, and opened
her womb.

30:23 And she conceived, and bare a son; and said, God hath taken away
my reproach: 30:24 And she called his name Joseph; and said, The LORD
shall add to me another son.

30:25 And it came to pass, when Rachel had born Joseph, that Jacob
said unto Laban, Send me away, that I may go unto mine own place, and
to my country.

30:26 Give me my wives and my children, for whom I have served thee,
and let me go: for thou knowest my service which I have done thee.

30:27 And Laban said unto him, I pray thee, if I have found favour in
thine eyes, tarry: for I have learned by experience that the LORD hath
blessed me for thy sake.

30:28 And he said, Appoint me thy wages, and I will give it.

30:29 And he said unto him, Thou knowest how I have served thee, and
how thy cattle was with me.

30:30 For it was little which thou hadst before I came, and it is now
increased unto a multitude; and the LORD hath blessed thee since my
coming: and now when shall I provide for mine own house also? 30:31
And he said, What shall I give thee? And Jacob said, Thou shalt not
give me any thing: if thou wilt do this thing for me, I will again
feed and keep thy flock.

30:32 I will pass through all thy flock to day, removing from thence
all the speckled and spotted cattle, and all the brown cattle among
the sheep, and the spotted and speckled among the goats: and of such
shall be my hire.

30:33 So shall my righteousness answer for me in time to come, when it
shall come for my hire before thy face: every one that is not speckled
and spotted among the goats, and brown among the sheep, that shall be
counted stolen with me.

30:34 And Laban said, Behold, I would it might be according to thy
word.

30:35 And he removed that day the he goats that were ringstraked and
spotted, and all the she goats that were speckled and spotted, and
every one that had some white in it, and all the brown among the
sheep, and gave them into the hand of his sons.

30:36 And he set three days’ journey betwixt himself and Jacob: and
Jacob fed the rest of Laban’s flocks.

30:37 And Jacob took him rods of green poplar, and of the hazel and
chestnut tree; and pilled white strakes in them, and made the white
appear which was in the rods.

30:38 And he set the rods which he had pilled before the flocks in the
gutters in the watering troughs when the flocks came to drink, that
they should conceive when they came to drink.

30:39 And the flocks conceived before the rods, and brought forth
cattle ringstraked, speckled, and spotted.

"Bella?" he asked, anxious now. 

"I think I need to he down," I gasped. 

"Oh, sorry." He waited for me, but I still couldn't move. 

"I think I need help," I admitted. 

He laughed quietly, and gentiy unloosened my stranglehold on his neck. There was no resisting the iron 
strength of his hands. Then he pulled me around to face him, cradling me in his arms like a small child. He 
held me for a moment, then carefully placed me on the springy ferns. 

"How do you feel?" he asked. 

I couldn't be sure how I felt when my head was spinning so crazily. "Dizzy, I think." 
"Put your head between your knees." 

I tried that, and it helped a little. I breathed in and out slowly, keeping my head very still. I felt him sitting 
beside me. The moments passed, and eventually I found that I could raise my head. There was a hollow 
ringing sound in my ears. 



"I guess that wasn't the best idea," he mused. 

I tried to be positive, but my voice was weak. "No, it was very interesting." 

"Hah! You're as white as a ghost — no, you're as white as me !" 

"I think I should have closed my eyes." 

"Remember that next time." 

"Next time!" I groaned. 

He laughed, his mood still radiant. 

"Show-off," I muttered. 

"Open your eyes, Bella," he said quietiy. 


30:40 And Jacob did separate the lambs, and set the faces of the
flocks toward the ringstraked, and all the brown in the flock of
Laban; and he put his own flocks by themselves, and put them not unto
Laban’s cattle.

30:41 And it came to pass, whensoever the stronger cattle did
conceive, that Jacob laid the rods before the eyes of the cattle in
the gutters, that they might conceive among the rods.

30:42 But when the cattle were feeble, he put them not in: so the
feebler were Laban’s, and the stronger Jacob’s.

30:43 And the man increased exceedingly, and had much cattle, and
maidservants, and menservants, and camels, and asses.

31:1 And he heard the words of Laban’s sons, saying, Jacob hath taken
away all that was our father’s; and of that which was our father’s
hath he gotten all this glory.

31:2 And Jacob beheld the countenance of Laban, and, behold, it was
not toward him as before.

31:3 And the LORD said unto Jacob, Return unto the land of thy
fathers, and to thy kindred; and I will be with thee.

31:4 And Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to the field unto his
flock, 31:5 And said unto them, I see your father’s countenance, that
it is not toward me as before; but the God of my father hath been with
me.

31:6 And ye know that with all my power I have served your father.

31:7 And your father hath deceived me, and changed my wages ten times;
but God suffered him not to hurt me.

31:8 If he said thus, The speckled shall be thy wages; then all the
cattle bare speckled: and if he said thus, The ringstraked shall be
thy hire; then bare all the cattle ringstraked.

31:9 Thus God hath taken away the cattle of your father, and given
them to me.

31:10 And it came to pass at the time that the cattle conceived, that
I lifted up mine eyes, and saw in a dream, and, behold, the rams which
leaped upon the cattle were ringstraked, speckled, and grisled.

31:11 And the angel of God spake unto me in a dream, saying, Jacob:
And I said, Here am I.

31:12 And he said, Lift up now thine eyes, and see, all the rams which
leap upon the cattle are ringstraked, speckled, and grisled: for I
have seen all that Laban doeth unto thee.

31:13 I am the God of Bethel, where thou anointedst the pillar, and
where thou vowedst a vow unto me: now arise, get thee out from this
land, and return unto the land of thy kindred.

31:14 And Rachel and Leah answered and said unto him, Is there yet any
portion or inheritance for us in our father’s house? 31:15 Are we not
counted of him strangers? for he hath sold us, and hath quite devoured
also our money.

31:16 For all the riches which God hath taken from our father, that is
ours, and our children’s: now then, whatsoever God hath said unto
thee, do.

31:17 Then Jacob rose up, and set his sons and his wives upon camels;
31:18 And he carried away all his cattle, and all his goods which he
had gotten, the cattle of his getting, which he had gotten in
Padanaram, for to go to Isaac his father in the land of Canaan.

31:19 And Laban went to shear his sheep: and Rachel had stolen the
images that were her father’s.


The worst part about Friday was that, even though I knew he wasn't going to be there, I still hoped. 
When I walked into the cafeteria with Jessica and Mike, I couldn't keep from looking at his table, where 
Rosalie, Alice, and Jasper sat talking, heads close together. And I couldn't stop the gloom that engulfed 
me as I realized I didn't know how long I would have to wait before I saw him again. 

At my usual table, everyone was full of our plans for the next day. Mike was animated again, putting a 
great deal of trust in the local weatherman who promised sun tomorrow. I'd have to see that before I 
believed it. But it was warmer today — almost sixty. Maybe the outing wouldn't be completely 
miserable. 



I intercepted a few unfriendly glances from Lauren during lunch, which I didn't understand until we were 
all walking out of the room together. I was right behind her, just a foot from her slick, silver blond hair, 
and she was evidently unaware of that. 

" . . .don't know why Bella " — she sneered my name — "doesn't just sit with the Cullens from now on." 

I heard her muttering to Mike. I'd never noticed what an unpleasant, nasal voice she had, and I was 
surprised by the malice in it. I really didn't know her well at all, certainly not well enough for her to dislike 
me — or so I'd thought. "She's my friend; she sits with us," Mike whispered back loyally, but also a bit 
territorially. I paused to let Jess and Angela pass me. I didn't want to hear any more. 



That night at dinner, Charlie seemed enthusiastic about my trip to La Push in the morning. I think he felt 
guilty for leaving me home alone on the weekends, but he'd spent too many years building his habits to 
break them now. Of course he knew the names of all the kids going, and their parents, and their 
great-grandparents, too, probably. He seemed to approve. I wondered if he would approve of my plan 
to ride to Seattle with Edward Cullen. Not that I was going to tell him. 

"Dad, do you know a place called Goat Rocks or something like that? I think it's south of Mount 
Rainier," I asked casually. 

"Yeah — why?" 

I shrugged. "Some kids were talking about camping there." 

"It's not a very good place for camping." He sounded surprised. "Too many bears. Most people go there 
during the hunting season." 

"Oh," I murmured. "Maybe I got the name wrong." 

I meant to sleep in, but an unusual brightness woke me. I opened my eyes to see a clear yellow light 
streaming through my window. I couldn't believe it. I hurried to the window to check, and sure enough, 
there was the sun. It was in the wrong place in the sky, too low, and it didn't seem to be as close as it 
should be, but it was definitely the sun. Clouds ringed the horizon, but a large patch of blue was visible in 
the middle. I lingered by the window as long as I could, afraid that if I left the blue would disappear 
again. 

31:20 And Jacob stole away unawares to Laban the Syrian, in that he
told him not that he fled.

31:21 So he fled with all that he had; and he rose up, and passed over
the river, and set his face toward the mount Gilead.

31:22 And it was told Laban on the third day that Jacob was fled.

31:23 And he took his brethren with him, and pursued after him seven
days’ journey; and they overtook him in the mount Gilead.

31:24 And God came to Laban the Syrian in a dream by night, and said
unto him, Take heed that thou speak not to Jacob either good or bad.

31:25 Then Laban overtook Jacob. Now Jacob had pitched his tent in the
mount: and Laban with his brethren pitched in the mount of Gilead.

31:26 And Laban said to Jacob, What hast thou done, that thou hast
stolen away unawares to me, and carried away my daughters, as captives
taken with the sword? 31:27 Wherefore didst thou flee away secretly,
and steal away from me; and didst not tell me, that I might have sent
thee away with mirth, and with songs, with tabret, and with harp?
31:28 And hast not suffered me to kiss my sons and my daughters? thou
hast now done foolishly in so doing.

31:29 It is in the power of my hand to do you hurt: but the God of
your father spake unto me yesternight, saying, Take thou heed that
thou speak not to Jacob either good or bad.

31:30 And now, though thou wouldest needs be gone, because thou sore
longedst after thy father’s house, yet wherefore hast thou stolen my
gods? 31:31 And Jacob answered and said to Laban, Because I was
afraid: for I said, Peradventure thou wouldest take by force thy
daughters from me.

31:32 With whomsoever thou findest thy gods, let him not live: before
our brethren discern thou what is thine with me, and take it to thee.
For Jacob knew not that Rachel had stolen them.

31:33 And Laban went into Jacob’s tent, and into Leah’s tent, and into
the two maidservants’ tents; but he found them not. Then went he out
of Leah’s tent, and entered into Rachel’s tent.

31:34 Now Rachel had taken the images, and put them in the camel’s
furniture, and sat upon them. And Laban searched all the tent, but
found them not.

31:35 And she said to her father, Let it not displease my lord that I
cannot rise up before thee; for the custom of women is upon me. And he
searched but found not the images.

31:36 And Jacob was wroth, and chode with Laban: and Jacob answered
and said to Laban, What is my trespass? what is my sin, that thou hast
so hotly pursued after me? 31:37 Whereas thou hast searched all my
stuff, what hast thou found of all thy household stuff? set it here
before my brethren and thy brethren, that they may judge betwixt us
both.

31:38 This twenty years have I been with thee; thy ewes and thy she
goats have not cast their young, and the rams of thy flock have I not
eaten.

31:39 That which was torn of beasts I brought not unto thee; I bare
the loss of it; of my hand didst thou require it, whether stolen by
day, or stolen by night.

31:40 Thus I was; in the day the drought consumed me, and the frost by
night; and my sleep departed from mine eyes.

31:41 Thus have I been twenty years in thy house; I served thee
fourteen years for thy two daughters, and six years for thy cattle:
and thou hast changed my wages ten times.

31:42 Except the God of my father, the God of Abraham, and the fear of
Isaac, had been with me, surely thou hadst sent me away now empty. God
hath seen mine affliction and the labour of my hands, and rebuked thee
yesternight.

31:43 And Laban answered and said unto Jacob, These daughters are my
daughters, and these children are my children, and these cattle are my
cattle, and all that thou seest is mine: and what can I do this day
unto these my daughters, or unto their children which they have born?
31:44 Now therefore come thou, let us make a covenant, I and thou; and
let it be for a witness between me and thee.

31:45 And Jacob took a stone, and set it up for a pillar.

31:46 And Jacob said unto his brethren, Gather stones; and they took
stones, and made an heap: and they did eat there upon the heap.

31:47 And Laban called it Jegarsahadutha: but Jacob called it Galeed.

31:48 And Laban said, This heap is a witness between me and thee this
day.

Therefore was the name of it called Galeed; 31:49 And Mizpah; for he
said, The LORD watch between me and thee, when we are absent one from
another.

31:50 If thou shalt afflict my daughters, or if thou shalt take other
wives beside my daughters, no man is with us; see, God is witness
betwixt me and thee.

31:51 And Laban said to Jacob, Behold this heap, and behold this
pillar, which I have cast betwixt me and thee: 31:52 This heap be
witness, and this pillar be witness, that I will not pass over this
heap to thee, and that thou shalt not pass over this heap and this
pillar unto me, for harm.

31:53 The God of Abraham, and the God of Nahor, the God of their
father, judge betwixt us. And Jacob sware by the fear of his father
Isaac.

31:54 Then Jacob offered sacrifice upon the mount, and called his
brethren to eat bread: and they did eat bread, and tarried all night
in the mount.

31:55 And early in the morning Laban rose up, and kissed his sons and
his daughters, and blessed them: and Laban departed, and returned unto
his place.

32:1 And Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him.

32:2 And when Jacob saw them, he said, This is God’s host: and he
called the name of that place Mahanaim.

32:3 And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother unto the
land of Seir, the country of Edom.

32:4 And he commanded them, saying, Thus shall ye speak unto my lord
Esau; Thy servant Jacob saith thus, I have sojourned with Laban, and
stayed there until now: 32:5 And I have oxen, and asses, flocks, and
menservants, and womenservants: and I have sent to tell my lord, that
I may find grace in thy sight.

32:6 And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to thy
brother Esau, and also he cometh to meet thee, and four hundred men
with him.

32:7 Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed: and he divided the
people that was with him, and the flocks, and herds, and the camels,
into two bands; 32:8 And said, If Esau come to the one company, and
smite it, then the other company which is left shall escape.

32:9 And Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham, and God of my father
Isaac, the LORD which saidst unto me, Return unto thy country, and to
thy kindred, and I will deal well with thee: 32:10 I am not worthy of
the least of all the mercies, and of all the truth, which thou hast
shewed unto thy servant; for with my staff I passed over this Jordan;
and now I am become two bands.

32:11 Deliver me, I pray thee, from the hand of my brother, from the
hand of Esau: for I fear him, lest he will come and smite me, and the
mother with the children.

32:12 And thou saidst, I will surely do thee good, and make thy seed
as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude.

32:13 And he lodged there that same night; and took of that which came
to his hand a present for Esau his brother; 32:14 Two hundred she
goats, and twenty he goats, two hundred ewes, and twenty rams, 32:15
Thirty milch camels with their colts, forty kine, and ten bulls,
twenty she asses, and ten foals.

32:16 And he delivered them into the hand of his servants, every drove
by themselves; and said unto his servants, Pass over before me, and
put a space betwixt drove and drove.

32:17 And he commanded the foremost, saying, When Esau my brother
meeteth thee, and asketh thee, saying, Whose art thou? and whither
goest thou? and whose are these before thee? 32:18 Then thou shalt
say, They be thy servant Jacob’s; it is a present sent unto my lord
Esau: and, behold, also he is behind us.

32:19 And so commanded he the second, and the third, and all that
followed the droves, saying, On this manner shall ye speak unto Esau,
when ye find him.

32:20 And say ye moreover, Behold, thy servant Jacob is behind us. For
he said, I will appease him with the present that goeth before me, and
afterward I will see his face; peradventure he will accept of me.

32:21 So went the present over before him: and himself lodged that
night in the company.

32:22 And he rose up that night, and took his two wives, and his two
womenservants, and his eleven sons, and passed over the ford Jabbok.

32:23 And he took them, and sent them over the brook, and sent over
that he had.

32:24 And Jacob was left alone; and there wrestled a man with him
until the breaking of the day.

32:25 And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touched
the hollow of his thigh; and the hollow of Jacob’s thigh was out of
joint, as he wrestled with him.

32:26 And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he said, I
will not let thee go, except thou bless me.

32:27 And he said unto him, What is thy name? And he said, Jacob.

32:28 And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel:
for as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hast
prevailed.

32:29 And Jacob asked him, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, thy name.
And he said, Wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my name? And he
blessed him there.

32:30 And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel: for I have seen
God face to face, and my life is preserved.

32:31 And as he passed over Penuel the sun rose upon him, and he
halted upon his thigh.

32:32 Therefore the children of Israel eat not of the sinew which
shrank, which is upon the hollow of the thigh, unto this day: because
he touched the hollow of Jacob’s thigh in the sinew that shrank.

33:1 And Jacob lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, Esau came,
and with him four hundred men. And he divided the children unto Leah,
and unto Rachel, and unto the two handmaids.

33:2 And he put the handmaids and their children foremost, and Leah
and her children after, and Rachel and Joseph hindermost.

33:3 And he passed over before them, and bowed himself to the ground
seven times, until he came near to his brother.

33:4 And Esau ran to meet him, and embraced him, and fell on his neck,
and kissed him: and they wept.

33:5 And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the women and the children;
and said, Who are those with thee? And he said, The children which God
hath graciously given thy servant.

33:6 Then the handmaidens came near, they and their children, and they
bowed themselves.

33:7 And Leah also with her children came near, and bowed themselves:
and after came Joseph near and Rachel, and they bowed themselves.

33:8 And he said, What meanest thou by all this drove which I met? And
he said, These are to find grace in the sight of my lord.

33:9 And Esau said, I have enough, my brother; keep that thou hast
unto thyself.

33:10 And Jacob said, Nay, I pray thee, if now I have found grace in
thy sight, then receive my present at my hand: for therefore I have
seen thy face, as though I had seen the face of God, and thou wast
pleased with me.

33:11 Take, I pray thee, my blessing that is brought to thee; because
God hath dealt graciously with me, and because I have enough. And he
urged him, and he took it.

33:12 And he said, Let us take our journey, and let us go, and I will
go before thee.

33:13 And he said unto him, My lord knoweth that the children are
tender, and the flocks and herds with young are with me: and if men
should overdrive them one day, all the flock will die.

33:14 Let my lord, I pray thee, pass over before his servant: and I
will lead on softly, according as the cattle that goeth before me and
the children be able to endure, until I come unto my lord unto Seir.

33:15 And Esau said, Let me now leave with thee some of the folk that
are with me. And he said, What needeth it? let me find grace in the
sight of my lord.

33:16 So Esau returned that day on his way unto Seir.

33:17 And Jacob journeyed to Succoth, and built him an house, and made
booths for his cattle: therefore the name of the place is called
Succoth.

33:18 And Jacob came to Shalem, a city of Shechem, which is in the
land of Canaan, when he came from Padanaram; and pitched his tent
before the city.

33:19 And he bought a parcel of a field, where he had spread his tent,
at the hand of the children of Hamor, Shechem’s father, for an hundred
pieces of money.

33:20 And he erected there an altar, and called it EleloheIsrael.

34:1 And Dinah the daughter of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob, went
out to see the daughters of the land.

34:2 And when Shechem the son of Hamor the Hivite, prince of the
country, saw her, he took her, and lay with her, and defiled her.

34:3 And his soul clave unto Dinah the daughter of Jacob, and he loved
the damsel, and spake kindly unto the damsel.

34:4 And Shechem spake unto his father Hamor, saying, Get me this
damsel to wife.

34:5 And Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah his daughter: now his
sons were with his cattle in the field: and Jacob held his peace until
they were come.

34:6 And Hamor the father of Shechem went out unto Jacob to commune
with him.

34:7 And the sons of Jacob came out of the field when they heard it:
and the men were grieved, and they were very wroth, because he had
wrought folly in Israel in lying with Jacob’s daughter: which thing
ought not to be done.

34:8 And Hamor communed with them, saying, The soul of my son Shechem
longeth for your daughter: I pray you give her him to wife.

34:9 And make ye marriages with us, and give your daughters unto us,
and take our daughters unto you.

34:10 And ye shall dwell with us: and the land shall be before you;
dwell and trade ye therein, and get you possessions therein.

34:11 And Shechem said unto her father and unto her brethren, Let me
find grace in your eyes, and what ye shall say unto me I will give.

34:12 Ask me never so much dowry and gift, and I will give according
as ye shall say unto me: but give me the damsel to wife.

34:13 And the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamor his father
deceitfully, and said, because he had defiled Dinah their sister:
34:14 And they said unto them, We cannot do this thing, to give our
sister to one that is uncircumcised; for that were a reproach unto us:
34:15 But in this will we consent unto you: If ye will be as we be,
that every male of you be circumcised; 34:16 Then will we give our
daughters unto you, and we will take your daughters to us, and we will
dwell with you, and we will become one people.

34:17 But if ye will not hearken unto us, to be circumcised; then will
we take our daughter, and we will be gone.

34:18 And their words pleased Hamor, and Shechem Hamor’s son.

34:19 And the young man deferred not to do the thing, because he had
delight in Jacob’s daughter: and he was more honourable than all the
house of his father.

34:20 And Hamor and Shechem his son came unto the gate of their city,
and communed with the men of their city, saying, 34:21 These men are
peaceable with us; therefore let them dwell in the land, and trade
therein; for the land, behold, it is large enough for them; let us
take their daughters to us for wives, and let us give them our
daughters.

34:22 Only herein will the men consent unto us for to dwell with us,
to be one people, if every male among us be circumcised, as they are
circumcised.

34:23 Shall not their cattle and their substance and every beast of
theirs be ours? only let us consent unto them, and they will dwell
with us.

34:24 And unto Hamor and unto Shechem his son hearkened all that went
out of the gate of his city; and every male was circumcised, all that
went out of the gate of his city.

34:25 And it came to pass on the third day, when they were sore, that
two of the sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, Dinah’s brethren, took each
man his sword, and came upon the city boldly, and slew all the males.

34:26 And they slew Hamor and Shechem his son with the edge of the
sword, and took Dinah out of Shechem’s house, and went out.

34:27 The sons of Jacob came upon the slain, and spoiled the city,
because they had defiled their sister.

34:28 They took their sheep, and their oxen, and their asses, and that
which was in the city, and that which was in the field, 34:29 And all
their wealth, and all their little ones, and their wives took they
captive, and spoiled even all that was in the house.

34:30 And Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, Ye have troubled me to make
me to stink among the inhabitants of the land, among the Canaanites
and the Perizzites: and I being few in number, they shall gather
themselves together against me, and slay me; and I shall be destroyed,
I and my house.

34:31 And they said, Should he deal with our sister as with an harlot?
35:1 And God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel, and dwell there:
and make there an altar unto God, that appeared unto thee when thou
fleddest from the face of Esau thy brother.

35:2 Then Jacob said unto his household, and to all that were with
him, Put away the strange gods that are among you, and be clean, and
change your garments: 35:3 And let us arise, and go up to Bethel; and
I will make there an altar unto God, who answered me in the day of my
distress, and was with me in the way which I went.

35:4 And they gave unto Jacob all the strange gods which were in their
hand, and all their earrings which were in their ears; and Jacob hid
them under the oak which was by Shechem.

35:5 And they journeyed: and the terror of God was upon the cities
that were round about them, and they did not pursue after the sons of
Jacob.

35:6 So Jacob came to Luz, which is in the land of Canaan, that is,
Bethel, he and all the people that were with him.

35:7 And he built there an altar, and called the place Elbethel:
because there God appeared unto him, when he fled from the face of his
brother.

35:8 But Deborah Rebekah’s nurse died, and she was buried beneath
Bethel under an oak: and the name of it was called Allonbachuth.

35:9 And God appeared unto Jacob again, when he came out of Padanaram,
and blessed him.

35:10 And God said unto him, Thy name is Jacob: thy name shall not be
called any more Jacob, but Israel shall be thy name: and he called his
name Israel.

35:11 And God said unto him, I am God Almighty: be fruitful and
multiply; a nation and a company of nations shall be of thee, and
kings shall come out of thy loins; 35:12 And the land which I gave
Abraham and Isaac, to thee I will give it, and to thy seed after thee
will I give the land.

35:13 And God went up from him in the place where he talked with him.

35:14 And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he talked with him,
even a pillar of stone: and he poured a drink offering thereon, and he
poured oil thereon.

35:15 And Jacob called the name of the place where God spake with him,
Bethel.

35:16 And they journeyed from Bethel; and there was but a little way
to come to Ephrath: and Rachel travailed, and she had hard labour.

35:17 And it came to pass, when she was in hard labour, that the
midwife said unto her, Fear not; thou shalt have this son also.

35:18 And it came to pass, as her soul was in departing, (for she
died) that she called his name Benoni: but his father called him
Benjamin.

35:19 And Rachel died, and was buried in the way to Ephrath, which is
Bethlehem.

35:20 And Jacob set a pillar upon her grave: that is the pillar of
Rachel’s grave unto this day.

35:21 And Israel journeyed, and spread his tent beyond the tower of
Edar.

35:22 And it came to pass, when Israel dwelt in that land, that Reuben
went and lay with Bilhah his father’s concubine: and Israel heard it.
Now the sons of Jacob were twelve: 35:23 The sons of Leah; Reuben,
Jacob’s firstborn, and Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and
Zebulun: 35:24 The sons of Rachel; Joseph, and Benjamin: 35:25 And the
sons of Bilhah, Rachel’s handmaid; Dan, and Naphtali: 35:26 And the
sons of Zilpah, Leah’s handmaid: Gad, and Asher: these are the sons of
Jacob, which were born to him in Padanaram.

35:27 And Jacob came unto Isaac his father unto Mamre, unto the city
of Arbah, which is Hebron, where Abraham and Isaac sojourned.

35:28 And the days of Isaac were an hundred and fourscore years.

35:29 And Isaac gave up the ghost, and died, and was gathered unto his
people, being old and full of days: and his sons Esau and Jacob buried
him.

36:1 Now these are the generations of Esau, who is Edom.

36:2 Esau took his wives of the daughters of Canaan; Adah the daughter
of Elon the Hittite, and Aholibamah the daughter of Anah the daughter
of Zibeon the Hivite; 36:3 And Bashemath Ishmael’s daughter, sister of
Nebajoth.

36:4 And Adah bare to Esau Eliphaz; and Bashemath bare Reuel; 36:5 And
Aholibamah bare Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah: these are the sons of
Esau, which were born unto him in the land of Canaan.

36:6 And Esau took his wives, and his sons, and his daughters, and all
the persons of his house, and his cattle, and all his beasts, and all
his substance, which he had got in the land of Canaan; and went into
the country from the face of his brother Jacob.

36:7 For their riches were more than that they might dwell together;
and the land wherein they were strangers could not bear them because
of their cattle.

36:8 Thus dwelt Esau in mount Seir: Esau is Edom.

36:9 And these are the generations of Esau the father of the Edomites
in mount Seir: 36:10 These are the names of Esau’s sons; Eliphaz the
son of Adah the wife of Esau, Reuel the son of Bashemath the wife of
Esau.

36:11 And the sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, and Gatam, and
Kenaz.

36:12 And Timna was concubine to Eliphaz Esau’s son; and she bare to
Eliphaz Amalek: these were the sons of Adah Esau’s wife.

36:13 And these are the sons of Reuel; Nahath, and Zerah, Shammah, and
Mizzah: these were the sons of Bashemath Esau’s wife.

36:14 And these were the sons of Aholibamah, the daughter of Anah the
daughter of Zibeon, Esau’s wife: and she bare to Esau Jeush, and
Jaalam, and Korah.

36:15 These were dukes of the sons of Esau: the sons of Eliphaz the
firstborn son of Esau; duke Teman, duke Omar, duke Zepho, duke Kenaz,
36:16 Duke Korah, duke Gatam, and duke Amalek: these are the dukes
that came of Eliphaz in the land of Edom; these were the sons of Adah.

36:17 And these are the sons of Reuel Esau’s son; duke Nahath, duke
Zerah, duke Shammah, duke Mizzah: these are the dukes that came of
Reuel in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Bashemath Esau’s
wife.

36:18 And these are the sons of Aholibamah Esau’s wife; duke Jeush,
duke Jaalam, duke Korah: these were the dukes that came of Aholibamah
the daughter of Anah, Esau’s wife.

36:19 These are the sons of Esau, who is Edom, and these are their
dukes.

36:20 These are the sons of Seir the Horite, who inhabited the land;
Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah, 36:21 And Dishon, and Ezer,
and Dishan: these are the dukes of the Horites, the children of Seir
in the land of Edom.

36:22 And the children of Lotan were Hori and Hemam; and Lotan’s
sister was Timna.

36:23 And the children of Shobal were these; Alvan, and Manahath, and
Ebal, Shepho, and Onam.

36:24 And these are the children of Zibeon; both Ajah, and Anah: this
was that Anah that found the mules in the wilderness, as he fed the
asses of Zibeon his father.

36:25 And the children of Anah were these; Dishon, and Aholibamah the
daughter of Anah.

36:26 And these are the children of Dishon; Hemdan, and Eshban, and
Ithran, and Cheran.

36:27 The children of Ezer are these; Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Akan.

36:28 The children of Dishan are these; Uz, and Aran.

36:29 These are the dukes that came of the Horites; duke Lotan, duke
Shobal, duke Zibeon, duke Anah, 36:30 Duke Dishon, duke Ezer, duke
Dishan: these are the dukes that came of Hori, among their dukes in
the land of Seir.

36:31 And these are the kings that reigned in the land of Edom, before
there reigned any king over the children of Israel.

36:32 And Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom: and the name of his
city was Dinhabah.

36:33 And Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in
his stead.

36:34 And Jobab died, and Husham of the land of Temani reigned in his
stead.

36:35 And Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who smote Midian in
the field of Moab, reigned in his stead: and the name of his city was
Avith.

36:36 And Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead.

36:37 And Samlah died, and Saul of Rehoboth by the river reigned in
his stead.



37:17 And the man said, They are departed hence; for I heard them say,
Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brethren, and found
them in Dothan.

37:18 And when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto
them, they conspired against him to slay him.

37:19 And they said one to another, Behold, this dreamer cometh.

37:20 Come now therefore, and let us slay him, and cast him into some
pit, and we will say, Some evil beast hath devoured him: and we shall
see what will become of his dreams.

37:21 And Reuben heard it, and he delivered him out of their hands;
and said, Let us not kill him.

37:22 And Reuben said unto them, Shed no blood, but cast him into this
pit that is in the wilderness, and lay no hand upon him; that he might
rid him out of their hands, to deliver him to his father again.

37:23 And it came to pass, when Joseph was come unto his brethren,
that they stript Joseph out of his coat, his coat of many colours that
was on him; 37:24 And they took him, and cast him into a pit: and the
pit was empty, there was no water in it.

37:25 And they sat down to eat bread: and they lifted up their eyes
and looked, and, behold, a company of Ishmeelites came from Gilead
with their camels bearing spicery and balm and myrrh, going to carry
it down to Egypt.

37:26 And Judah said unto his brethren, What profit is it if we slay
our brother, and conceal his blood? 37:27 Come, and let us sell him
to the Ishmeelites, and let not our hand be upon him; for he is our
brother and our flesh. And his brethren were content.

37:28 Then there passed by Midianites merchantmen; and they drew and
lifted up Joseph out of the pit, and sold Joseph to the Ishmeelites
for twenty pieces of silver: and they brought Joseph into Egypt.

37:29 And Reuben returned unto the pit; and, behold, Joseph was not in
the pit; and he rent his clothes.

37:30 And he returned unto his brethren, and said, The child is not;
and I, whither shall I go? 37:31 And they took Joseph’s coat, and
killed a kid of the goats, and dipped the coat in the blood; 37:32 And
they sent the coat of many colours, and they brought it to their
father; and said, This have we found: know now whether it be thy son’s
coat or no.

37:33 And he knew it, and said, It is my son’s coat; an evil beast
hath devoured him; Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces.

37:34 And Jacob rent his clothes, and put sackcloth upon his loins,
and mourned for his son many days.

37:35 And all his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him;
but he refused to be comforted; and he said, For I will go down into
the grave unto my son mourning. Thus his father wept for him.

37:36 And the Midianites sold him into Egypt unto Potiphar, an officer
of Pharaoh’s, and captain of the guard.

38:1 And it came to pass at that time, that Judah went down from his
brethren, and turned in to a certain Adullamite, whose name was Hirah.

38:2 And Judah saw there a daughter of a certain Canaanite, whose name
was Shuah; and he took her, and went in unto her.

38:3 And she conceived, and bare a son; and he called his name Er.

38:4 And she conceived again, and bare a son; and she called his name
Onan.

38:5 And she yet again conceived, and bare a son; and called his name
Shelah: and he was at Chezib, when she bare him.

38:6 And Judah took a wife for Er his firstborn, whose name was Tamar.

38:7 And Er, Judah’s firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the LORD;
and the LORD slew him.

38:8 And Judah said unto Onan, Go in unto thy brother’s wife, and
marry her, and raise up seed to thy brother.

38:9 And Onan knew that the seed should not be his; and it came to
pass, when he went in unto his brother’s wife, that he spilled it on
the ground, lest that he should give seed to his brother.

38:10 And the thing which he did displeased the LORD: wherefore he
slew him also.

38:11 Then said Judah to Tamar his daughter in law, Remain a widow at
thy father’s house, till Shelah my son be grown: for he said, Lest
peradventure he die also, as his brethren did. And Tamar went and
dwelt in her father’s house.

38:12 And in process of time the daughter of Shuah Judah’s wife died;
and Judah was comforted, and went up unto his sheepshearers to
Timnath, he and his friend Hirah the Adullamite.

38:13 And it was told Tamar, saying, Behold thy father in law goeth up
to Timnath to shear his sheep.

38:14 And she put her widow’s garments off from her, and covered her
with a vail, and wrapped herself, and sat in an open place, which is
by the way to Timnath; for she saw that Shelah was grown, and she was
not given unto him to wife.

38:15 When Judah saw her, he thought her to be an harlot; because she
had covered her face.

38:16 And he turned unto her by the way, and said, Go to, I pray thee,
let me come in unto thee; (for he knew not that she was his daughter
in law.) And she said, What wilt thou give me, that thou mayest come
in unto me? 38:17 And he said, I will send thee a kid from the flock.
And she said, Wilt thou give me a pledge, till thou send it? 38:18
And he said, What pledge shall I give thee? And she said, Thy signet,
and thy bracelets, and thy staff that is in thine hand. And he gave it
her, and came in unto her, and she conceived by him.

38:19 And she arose, and went away, and laid by her vail from her, and
put on the garments of her widowhood.

38:20 And Judah sent the kid by the hand of his friend the Adullamite,
to receive his pledge from the woman’s hand: but he found her not.

38:21 Then he asked the men of that place, saying, Where is the
harlot, that was openly by the way side? And they said, There was no
harlot in this place.

38:22 And he returned to Judah, and said, I cannot find her; and also
the men of the place said, that there was no harlot in this place.

38:23 And Judah said, Let her take it to her, lest we be shamed:
behold, I sent this kid, and thou hast not found her.

38:24 And it came to pass about three months after, that it was told
Judah, saying, Tamar thy daughter in law hath played the harlot; and
also, behold, she is with child by whoredom. And Judah said, Bring her
forth, and let her be burnt.

38:25 When she was brought forth, she sent to her father in law,
saying, By the man, whose these are, am I with child: and she said,
Discern, I pray thee, whose are these, the signet, and bracelets, and
staff.

38:26 And Judah acknowledged them, and said, She hath been more
righteous than I; because that I gave her not to Shelah my son. And he
knew her again no more.

38:27 And it came to pass in the time of her travail, that, behold,
twins were in her womb.

38:28 And it came to pass, when she travailed, that the one put out
his hand: and the midwife took and bound upon his hand a scarlet
thread, saying, This came out first.

38:29 And it came to pass, as he drew back his hand, that, behold, his
brother came out: and she said, How hast thou broken forth? this
breach be upon thee: therefore his name was called Pharez.

38:30 And afterward came out his brother, that had the scarlet thread
upon his hand: and his name was called Zarah.

39:1 And Joseph was brought down to Egypt; and Potiphar, an officer of
Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him of the hands of
the Ishmeelites, which had brought him down thither.

39:2 And the LORD was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man; and he
was in the house of his master the Egyptian.

39:3 And his master saw that the LORD was with him, and that the LORD
made all that he did to prosper in his hand.

39:4 And Joseph found grace in his sight, and he served him: and he
made him overseer over his house, and all that he had he put into his
hand.

39:5 And it came to pass from the time that he had made him overseer
in his house, and over all that he had, that the LORD blessed the
Egyptian’s house for Joseph’s sake; and the blessing of the LORD was
upon all that he had in the house, and in the field.

39:6 And he left all that he had in Joseph’s hand; and he knew not
ought he had, save the bread which he did eat. And Joseph was a goodly
person, and well favoured.

39:7 And it came to pass after these things, that his master’s wife
cast her eyes upon Joseph; and she said, Lie with me.

39:8 But he refused, and said unto his master’s wife, Behold, my
master wotteth not what is with me in the house, and he hath committed
all that he hath to my hand; 39:9 There is none greater in this house
than I; neither hath he kept back any thing from me but thee, because
thou art his wife: how then can I do this great wickedness, and sin
against God? 39:10 And it came to pass, as she spake to Joseph day by
day, that he hearkened not unto her, to lie by her, or to be with her.

39:11 And it came to pass about this time, that Joseph went into the
house to do his business; and there was none of the men of the house
there within.

39:12 And she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me: and he
left his garment in her hand, and fled, and got him out.

39:13 And it came to pass, when she saw that he had left his garment
in her hand, and was fled forth, 39:14 That she called unto the men of
her house, and spake unto them, saying, See, he hath brought in an
Hebrew unto us to mock us; he came in unto me to lie with me, and I
cried with a loud voice: 39:15 And it came to pass, when he heard that
I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment with me, and
fled, and got him out.

39:16 And she laid up his garment by her, until his lord came home.

39:17 And she spake unto him according to these words, saying, The
Hebrew servant, which thou hast brought unto us, came in unto me to
mock me: 39:18 And it came to pass, as I lifted up my voice and cried,
that he left his garment with me, and fled out.

39:19 And it came to pass, when his master heard the words of his
wife, which she spake unto him, saying, After this manner did thy
servant to me; that his wrath was kindled.

39:20 And Joseph’s master took him, and put him into the prison, a
place where the king’s prisoners were bound: and he was there in the
prison.

39:21 But the LORD was with Joseph, and shewed him mercy, and gave him
favour in the sight of the keeper of the prison.

39:22 And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph’s hand all the
prisoners that were in the prison; and whatsoever they did there, he
was the doer of it.

39:23 The keeper of the prison looked not to any thing that was under
his hand; because the LORD was with him, and that which he did, the
LORD made it to prosper.

40:1 And it came to pass after these things, that the butler of the
king of Egypt and his baker had offended their lord the king of Egypt.

40:2 And Pharaoh was wroth against two of his officers, against the
chief of the butlers, and against the chief of the bakers.

40:3 And he put them in ward in the house of the captain of the guard,
into the prison, the place where Joseph was bound.

40:4 And the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them, and he
served them: and they continued a season in ward.

40:5 And they dreamed a dream both of them, each man his dream in one
night, each man according to the interpretation of his dream, the
butler and the baker of the king of Egypt, which were bound in the
prison.

40:6 And Joseph came in unto them in the morning, and looked upon
them, and, behold, they were sad.

40:7 And he asked Pharaoh’s officers that were with him in the ward of
his lord’s house, saying, Wherefore look ye so sadly to day? 40:8 And
they said unto him, We have dreamed a dream, and there is no
interpreter of it. And Joseph said unto them, Do not interpretations
belong to God? tell me them, I pray you.

40:9 And the chief butler told his dream to Joseph, and said to him,
In my dream, behold, a vine was before me; 40:10 And in the vine were
three branches: and it was as though it budded, and her blossoms shot
forth; and the clusters thereof brought forth ripe grapes: 40:11 And
Pharaoh’s cup was in my hand: and I took the grapes, and pressed them
into Pharaoh’s cup, and I gave the cup into Pharaoh’s hand.

40:12 And Joseph said unto him, This is the interpretation of it: The
three branches are three days: 40:13 Yet within three days shall
Pharaoh lift up thine head, and restore thee unto thy place: and thou
shalt deliver Pharaoh’s cup into his hand, after the former manner
when thou wast his butler.

40:14 But think on me when it shall be well with thee, and shew
kindness, I pray thee, unto me, and make mention of me unto Pharaoh,
and bring me out of this house: 40:15 For indeed I was stolen away out
of the land of the Hebrews: and here also have I done nothing that
they should put me into the dungeon.

40:16 When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good, he
said unto Joseph, I also was in my dream, and, behold, I had three
white baskets on my head: 40:17 And in the uppermost basket there was
of all manner of bakemeats for Pharaoh; and the birds did eat them out
of the basket upon my head.

40:18 And Joseph answered and said, This is the interpretation
thereof: The three baskets are three days: 40:19 Yet within three days
shall Pharaoh lift up thy head from off thee, and shall hang thee on a
tree; and the birds shall eat thy flesh from off thee.

40:20 And it came to pass the third day, which was Pharaoh’s birthday,
that he made a feast unto all his servants: and he lifted up the head
of the chief butler and of the chief baker among his servants.

40:21 And he restored the chief butler unto his butlership again; and
he gave the cup into Pharaoh’s hand: 40:22 But he hanged the chief
baker: as Joseph had interpreted to them.

40:23 Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgat him.

41:1 And it came to pass at the end of two full years, that Pharaoh
dreamed: and, behold, he stood by the river.

41:2 And, behold, there came up out of the river seven well favoured
kine and fatfleshed; and they fed in a meadow.

41:3 And, behold, seven other kine came up after them out of the
river, ill favoured and leanfleshed; and stood by the other kine upon
the brink of the river.

41:4 And the ill favoured and leanfleshed kine did eat up the seven
well favoured and fat kine. So Pharaoh awoke.

41:5 And he slept and dreamed the second time: and, behold, seven ears
of corn came up upon one stalk, rank and good.

41:6 And, behold, seven thin ears and blasted with the east wind
sprung up after them.

41:7 And the seven thin ears devoured the seven rank and full ears.
And Pharaoh awoke, and, behold, it was a dream.

41:8 And it came to pass in the morning that his spirit was troubled;
and he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt, and all the
wise men thereof: and Pharaoh told them his dream; but there was none
that could interpret them unto Pharaoh.

41:9 Then spake the chief butler unto Pharaoh, saying, I do remember
my faults this day: 41:10 Pharaoh was wroth with his servants, and put
me in ward in the captain of the guard’s house, both me and the chief
baker: 41:11 And we dreamed a dream in one night, I and he; we dreamed
each man according to the interpretation of his dream.

41:12 And there was there with us a young man, an Hebrew, servant to
the captain of the guard; and we told him, and he interpreted to us
our dreams; to each man according to his dream he did interpret.

41:13 And it came to pass, as he interpreted to us, so it was; me he
restored unto mine office, and him he hanged.

41:14 Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him
hastily out of the dungeon: and he shaved himself, and changed his
raiment, and came in unto Pharaoh.

41:15 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I have dreamed a dream, and there
is none that can interpret it: and I have heard say of thee, that thou
canst understand a dream to interpret it.



41:27 And the seven thin and ill favoured kine that came up after them
are seven years; and the seven empty ears blasted with the east wind
shall be seven years of famine.

41:28 This is the thing which I have spoken unto Pharaoh: What God is
about to do he sheweth unto Pharaoh.

41:29 Behold, there come seven years of great plenty throughout all
the land of Egypt: 41:30 And there shall arise after them seven years
of famine; and all the plenty shall be forgotten in the land of Egypt;
and the famine shall consume the land; 41:31 And the plenty shall not
be known in the land by reason of that famine following; for it shall
be very grievous.

41:32 And for that the dream was doubled unto Pharaoh twice; it is
because the thing is established by God, and God will shortly bring it
to pass.

41:33 Now therefore let Pharaoh look out a man discreet and wise, and
set him over the land of Egypt.

41:34 Let Pharaoh do this, and let him appoint officers over the land,
and take up the fifth part of the land of Egypt in the seven plenteous
years.

41:35 And let them gather all the food of those good years that come,
and lay up corn under the hand of Pharaoh, and let them keep food in
the cities.

41:36 And that food shall be for store to the land against the seven
years of famine, which shall be in the land of Egypt; that the land
perish not through the famine.

41:37 And the thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes
of all his servants.

41:38 And Pharaoh said unto his servants, Can we find such a one as
this is, a man in whom the Spirit of God is? 41:39 And Pharaoh said
unto Joseph, Forasmuch as God hath shewed thee all this, there is none
so discreet and wise as thou art: 41:40 Thou shalt be over my house,
and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled: only in the
throne will I be greater than thou.

41:41 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, See, I have set thee over all the
land of Egypt.

41:42 And Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand, and put it upon
Joseph’s hand, and arrayed him in vestures of fine linen, and put a
gold chain about his neck; 41:43 And he made him to ride in the second
chariot which he had; and they cried before him, Bow the knee: and he
made him ruler over all the land of Egypt.

41:44 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and without thee
shall no man lift up his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt.

41:45 And Pharaoh called Joseph’s name Zaphnathpaaneah; and he gave
him to wife Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On. And
Joseph went out over all the land of Egypt.

41:46 And Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh
king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh, and
went throughout all the land of Egypt.

41:47 And in the seven plenteous years the earth brought forth by
handfuls.

41:48 And he gathered up all the food of the seven years, which were
in the land of Egypt, and laid up the food in the cities: the food of
the field, which was round about every city, laid he up in the same.

41:49 And Joseph gathered corn as the sand of the sea, very much,
until he left numbering; for it was without number.

41:50 And unto Joseph were born two sons before the years of famine
came, which Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On bare unto
him.

41:51 And Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh: For God,
said he, hath made me forget all my toil, and all my father’s house.

41:52 And the name of the second called he Ephraim: For God hath
caused me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction.

41:53 And the seven years of plenteousness, that was in the land of
Egypt, were ended.

41:54 And the seven years of dearth began to come, according as Joseph
had said: and the dearth was in all lands; but in all the land of
Egypt there was bread.

41:55 And when all the land of Egypt was famished, the people cried to
Pharaoh for bread: and Pharaoh said unto all the Egyptians, Go unto
Joseph; what he saith to you, do.

41:56 And the famine was over all the face of the earth: and Joseph
opened all the storehouses, and sold unto the Egyptians; and the
famine waxed sore in the land of Egypt.

41:57 And all countries came into Egypt to Joseph for to buy corn;
because that the famine was so sore in all lands.

42:1 Now when Jacob saw that there was corn in Egypt, Jacob said unto
his sons, Why do ye look one upon another? 42:2 And he said, Behold,
I have heard that there is corn in Egypt: get you down thither, and
buy for us from thence; that we may live, and not die.

42:3 And Joseph’s ten brethren went down to buy corn in Egypt.

42:4 But Benjamin, Joseph’s brother, Jacob sent not with his brethren;
for he said, Lest peradventure mischief befall him.

42:5 And the sons of Israel came to buy corn among those that came:
for the famine was in the land of Canaan.

42:6 And Joseph was the governor over the land, and he it was that
sold to all the people of the land: and Joseph’s brethren came, and
bowed down themselves before him with their faces to the earth.

42:7 And Joseph saw his brethren, and he knew them, but made himself
strange unto them, and spake roughly unto them; and he said unto them,
Whence come ye? And they said, From the land of Canaan to buy food.

42:8 And Joseph knew his brethren, but they knew not him.

42:9 And Joseph remembered the dreams which he dreamed of them, and
said unto them, Ye are spies; to see the nakedness of the land ye are
come.

42:10 And they said unto him, Nay, my lord, but to buy food are thy
servants come.

42:11 We are all one man’s sons; we are true men, thy servants are no
spies.

42:12 And he said unto them, Nay, but to see the nakedness of the land
ye are come.

42:13 And they said, Thy servants are twelve brethren, the sons of one
man in the land of Canaan; and, behold, the youngest is this day with
our father, and one is not.

42:14 And Joseph said unto them, That is it that I spake unto you,
saying, Ye are spies: 42:15 Hereby ye shall be proved: By the life of
Pharaoh ye shall not go forth hence, except your youngest brother come
hither.

42:16 Send one of you, and let him fetch your brother, and ye shall be
kept in prison, that your words may be proved, whether there be any
truth in you: or else by the life of Pharaoh surely ye are spies.

42:17 And he put them all together into ward three days.

42:18 And Joseph said unto them the third day, This do, and live; for
I fear God: 42:19 If ye be true men, let one of your brethren be bound
in the house of your prison: go ye, carry corn for the famine of your
houses: 42:20 But bring your youngest brother unto me; so shall your
words be verified, and ye shall not die. And they did so.

42:21 And they said one to another, We are verily guilty concerning
our brother, in that we saw the anguish of his soul, when he besought
us, and we would not hear; therefore is this distress come upon us.

42:22 And Reuben answered them, saying, Spake I not unto you, saying,
Do not sin against the child; and ye would not hear? therefore,
behold, also his blood is required.

42:23 And they knew not that Joseph understood them; for he spake unto
them by an interpreter.

42:24 And he turned himself about from them, and wept; and returned to
them again, and communed with them, and took from them Simeon, and
bound him before their eyes.

42:25 Then Joseph commanded to fill their sacks with corn, and to
restore every man’s money into his sack, and to give them provision
for the way: and thus did he unto them.

42:26 And they laded their asses with the corn, and departed thence.

42:27 And as one of them opened his sack to give his ass provender in
the inn, he espied his money; for, behold, it was in his sack’s mouth.

42:28 And he said unto his brethren, My money is restored; and, lo, it
is even in my sack: and their heart failed them, and they were afraid,
saying one to another, What is this that God hath done unto us? 42:29
And they came unto Jacob their father unto the land of Canaan, and
told him all that befell unto them; saying, 42:30 The man, who is the
lord of the land, spake roughly to us, and took us for spies of the
country.

42:31 And we said unto him, We are true men; we are no spies: 42:32 We
be twelve brethren, sons of our father; one is not, and the youngest
is this day with our father in the land of Canaan.

42:33 And the man, the lord of the country, said unto us, Hereby shall
I know that ye are true men; leave one of your brethren here with me,
and take food for the famine of your households, and be gone: 42:34
And bring your youngest brother unto me: then shall I know that ye are
no spies, but that ye are true men: so will I deliver you your
brother, and ye shall traffick in the land.

42:35 And it came to pass as they emptied their sacks, that, behold,
every man’s bundle of money was in his sack: and when both they and
their father saw the bundles of money, they were afraid.

42:36 And Jacob their father said unto them, Me have ye bereaved of my
children: Joseph is not, and Simeon is not, and ye will take Benjamin
away: all these things are against me.

42:37 And Reuben spake unto his father, saying, Slay my two sons, if I
bring him not to thee: deliver him into my hand, and I will bring him
to thee again.

42:38 And he said, My son shall not go down with you; for his brother
is dead, and he is left alone: if mischief befall him by the way in
the which ye go, then shall ye bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to
the grave.

43:1 And the famine was sore in the land.

43:2 And it came to pass, when they had eaten up the corn which they
had brought out of Egypt, their father said unto them, Go again, buy
us a little food.

43:3 And Judah spake unto him, saying, The man did solemnly protest
unto us, saying, Ye shall not see my face, except your brother be with
you.

43:4 If thou wilt send our brother with us, we will go down and buy
thee food: 43:5 But if thou wilt not send him, we will not go down:
for the man said unto us, Ye shall not see my face, except your
brother be with you.

43:6 And Israel said, Wherefore dealt ye so ill with me, as to tell
the man whether ye had yet a brother? 43:7 And they said, The man
asked us straitly of our state, and of our kindred, saying, Is your
father yet alive? have ye another brother? and we told him according
to the tenor of these words: could we certainly know that he would
say, Bring your brother down? 43:8 And Judah said unto Israel his
father, Send the lad with me, and we will arise and go; that we may
live, and not die, both we, and thou, and also our little ones.

43:9 I will be surety for him; of my hand shalt thou require him: if I
bring him not unto thee, and set him before thee, then let me bear the
blame for ever: 43:10 For except we had lingered, surely now we had
returned this second time.

43:11 And their father Israel said unto them, If it must be so now, do
this; take of the best fruits in the land in your vessels, and carry
down the man a present, a little balm, and a little honey, spices, and
myrrh, nuts, and almonds: 43:12 And take double money in your hand;
and the money that was brought again in the mouth of your sacks, carry
it again in your hand; peradventure it was an oversight: 43:13 Take
also your brother, and arise, go again unto the man: 43:14 And God
Almighty give you mercy before the man, that he may send away your
other brother, and Benjamin. If I be bereaved of my children, I am
bereaved.

43:15 And the men took that present, and they took double money in
their hand and Benjamin; and rose up, and went down to Egypt, and
stood before Joseph.

43:16 And when Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to the ruler of
his house, Bring these men home, and slay, and make ready; for these
men shall dine with me at noon.

43:17 And the man did as Joseph bade; and the man brought the men into
Joseph’s house.

43:18 And the men were afraid, because they were brought into Joseph’s
house; and they said, Because of the money that was returned in our
sacks at the first time are we brought in; that he may seek occasion
against us, and fall upon us, and take us for bondmen, and our asses.

43:19 And they came near to the steward of Joseph’s house, and they
communed with him at the door of the house, 43:20 And said, O sir, we
came indeed down at the first time to buy food: 43:21 And it came to
pass, when we came to the inn, that we opened our sacks, and, behold,
every man’s money was in the mouth of his sack, our money in full
weight: and we have brought it again in our hand.


44:11 Then they speedily took down every man his sack to the ground,
and opened every man his sack.

44:12 And he searched, and began at the eldest, and left at the
youngest: and the cup was found in Benjamin’s sack.

44:13 Then they rent their clothes, and laded every man his ass, and
returned to the city.

44:14 And Judah and his brethren came to Joseph’s house; for he was
yet there: and they fell before him on the ground.

44:15 And Joseph said unto them, What deed is this that ye have done?
wot ye not that such a man as I can certainly divine? 44:16 And Judah
said, What shall we say unto my lord? what shall we speak? or how
shall we clear ourselves? God hath found out the iniquity of thy
servants: behold, we are my lord’s servants, both we, and he also with
whom the cup is found.

44:17 And he said, God forbid that I should do so: but the man in
whose hand the cup is found, he shall be my servant; and as for you,
get you up in peace unto your father.

44:18 Then Judah came near unto him, and said, Oh my lord, let thy
servant, I pray thee, speak a word in my lord’s ears, and let not
thine anger burn against thy servant: for thou art even as Pharaoh.

44:19 My lord asked his servants, saying, Have ye a father, or a
brother? 44:20 And we said unto my lord, We have a father, an old
man, and a child of his old age, a little one; and his brother is
dead, and he alone is left of his mother, and his father loveth him.

44:21 And thou saidst unto thy servants, Bring him down unto me, that
I may set mine eyes upon him.

44:22 And we said unto my lord, The lad cannot leave his father: for
if he should leave his father, his father would die.

44:23 And thou saidst unto thy servants, Except your youngest brother
come down with you, ye shall see my face no more.

44:24 And it came to pass when we came up unto thy servant my father,
we told him the words of my lord.

44:25 And our father said, Go again, and buy us a little food.

44:26 And we said, We cannot go down: if our youngest brother be with
us, then will we go down: for we may not see the man’s face, except
our youngest brother be with us.

44:27 And thy servant my father said unto us, Ye know that my wife
bare me two sons: 44:28 And the one went out from me, and I said,
Surely he is torn in pieces; and I saw him not since: 44:29 And if ye
take this also from me, and mischief befall him, ye shall bring down
my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave.

44:30 Now therefore when I come to thy servant my father, and the lad
be not with us; seeing that his life is bound up in the lad’s life;
44:31 It shall come to pass, when he seeth that the lad is not with
us, that he will die: and thy servants shall bring down the gray hairs
of thy servant our father with sorrow to the grave.

44:32 For thy servant became surety for the lad unto my father,
saying, If I bring him not unto thee, then I shall bear the blame to
my father for ever.

44:33 Now therefore, I pray thee, let thy servant abide instead of the
lad a bondman to my lord; and let the lad go up with his brethren.

44:34 For how shall I go up to my father, and the lad be not with me?
lest peradventure I see the evil that shall come on my father.

45:1 Then Joseph could not refrain himself before all them that stood
by him; and he cried, Cause every man to go out from me. And there
stood no man with him, while Joseph made himself known unto his
brethren.

45:2 And he wept aloud: and the Egyptians and the house of Pharaoh
heard.

45:3 And Joseph said unto his brethren, I am Joseph; doth my father
yet live? And his brethren could not answer him; for they were
troubled at his presence.

45:4 And Joseph said unto his brethren, Come near to me, I pray you.
And they came near. And he said, I am Joseph your brother, whom ye
sold into Egypt.

45:5 Now therefore be not grieved, nor angry with yourselves, that ye
sold me hither: for God did send me before you to preserve life.

45:6 For these two years hath the famine been in the land: and yet
there are five years, in the which there shall neither be earing nor
harvest.

45:7 And God sent me before you to preserve you a posterity in the
earth, and to save your lives by a great deliverance.

45:8 So now it was not you that sent me hither, but God: and he hath
made me a father to Pharaoh, and lord of all his house, and a ruler
throughout all the land of Egypt.

45:9 Haste ye, and go up to my father, and say unto him, Thus saith
thy son Joseph, God hath made me lord of all Egypt: come down unto me,
tarry not: 45:10 And thou shalt dwell in the land of Goshen, and thou
shalt be near unto me, thou, and thy children, and thy children’s
children, and thy flocks, and thy herds, and all that thou hast: 45:11
And there will I nourish thee; for yet there are five years of famine;
lest thou, and thy household, and all that thou hast, come to poverty.

45:12 And, behold, your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin,
that it is my mouth that speaketh unto you.

45:13 And ye shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt, and of all
that ye have seen; and ye shall haste and bring down my father hither.

45:14 And he fell upon his brother Benjamin’s neck, and wept; and
Benjamin wept upon his neck.

45:15 Moreover he kissed all his brethren, and wept upon them: and
after that his brethren talked with him.

45:16 And the fame thereof was heard in Pharaoh’s house, saying,
Joseph’s brethren are come: and it pleased Pharaoh well, and his
servants.

45:17 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, Say unto thy brethren, This do ye;
lade your beasts, and go, get you unto the land of Canaan; 45:18 And
take your father and your households, and come unto me: and I will
give you the good of the land of Egypt, and ye shall eat the fat of
the land.

45:19 Now thou art commanded, this do ye; take you wagons out of the
land of Egypt for your little ones, and for your wives, and bring your
father, and come.

45:20 Also regard not your stuff; for the good of all the land of
Egypt is yours.

45:21 And the children of Israel did so: and Joseph gave them wagons,
according to the commandment of Pharaoh, and gave them provision for
the way.


46:29 And Joseph made ready his chariot, and went up to meet Israel
his father, to Goshen, and presented himself unto him; and he fell on
his neck, and wept on his neck a good while.

46:30 And Israel said unto Joseph, Now let me die, since I have seen
thy face, because thou art yet alive.

46:31 And Joseph said unto his brethren, and unto his father’s house,
I will go up, and shew Pharaoh, and say unto him, My brethren, and my
father’s house, which were in the land of Canaan, are come unto me;
46:32 And the men are shepherds, for their trade hath been to feed
cattle; and they have brought their flocks, and their herds, and all
that they have.

46:33 And it shall come to pass, when Pharaoh shall call you, and
shall say, What is your occupation? 46:34 That ye shall say, Thy
servants’ trade hath been about cattle from our youth even until now,
both we, and also our fathers: that ye may dwell in the land of
Goshen; for every shepherd is an abomination unto the Egyptians.

47:1 Then Joseph came and told Pharaoh, and said, My father and my
brethren, and their flocks, and their herds, and all that they have,
are come out of the land of Canaan; and, behold, they are in the land
of Goshen.

47:2 And he took some of his brethren, even five men, and presented
them unto Pharaoh.

47:3 And Pharaoh said unto his brethren, What is your occupation? And
they said unto Pharaoh, Thy servants are shepherds, both we, and also
our fathers.

47:4 They said morever unto Pharaoh, For to sojourn in the land are we
come; for thy servants have no pasture for their flocks; for the
famine is sore in the land of Canaan: now therefore, we pray thee, let
thy servants dwell in the land of Goshen.

47:5 And Pharaoh spake unto Joseph, saying, Thy father and thy
brethren are come unto thee: 47:6 The land of Egypt is before thee; in
the best of the land make thy father and brethren to dwell; in the
land of Goshen let them dwell: and if thou knowest any men of activity
among them, then make them rulers over my cattle.

47:7 And Joseph brought in Jacob his father, and set him before
Pharaoh: and Jacob blessed Pharaoh.

47:8 And Pharaoh said unto Jacob, How old art thou? 47:9 And Jacob
said unto Pharaoh, The days of the years of my pilgrimage are an
hundred and thirty years: few and evil have the days of the years of
my life been, and have not attained unto the days of the years of the
life of my fathers in the days of their pilgrimage.

47:10 And Jacob blessed Pharaoh, and went out from before Pharaoh.

47:11 And Joseph placed his father and his brethren, and gave them a
possession in the land of Egypt, in the best of the land, in the land
of Rameses, as Pharaoh had commanded.

47:12 And Joseph nourished his father, and his brethren, and all his
father’s household, with bread, according to their families.

47:13 And there was no bread in all the land; for the famine was very
sore, so that the land of Egypt and all the land of Canaan fainted by
reason of the famine.

47:14 And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land
of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, for the corn which they bought:
and Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh’s house.

47:15 And when money failed in the land of Egypt, and in the land of
Canaan, all the Egyptians came unto Joseph, and said, Give us bread:
for why should we die in thy presence? for the money faileth.

47:16 And Joseph said, Give your cattle; and I will give you for your
cattle, if money fail.

47:17 And they brought their cattle unto Joseph: and Joseph gave them
bread in exchange for horses, and for the flocks, and for the cattle
of the herds, and for the asses: and he fed them with bread for all
their cattle for that year.

47:18 When that year was ended, they came unto him the second year,
and said unto him, We will not hide it from my lord, how that our
money is spent; my lord also hath our herds of cattle; there is not
ought left in the sight of my lord, but our bodies, and our lands:
47:19 Wherefore shall we die before thine eyes, both we and our land?
buy us and our land for bread, and we and our land will be servants
unto Pharaoh: and give us seed, that we may live, and not die, that
the land be not desolate.

47:20 And Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh; for the
Egyptians sold every man his field, because the famine prevailed over
them: so the land became Pharaoh’s.

47:21 And as for the people, he removed them to cities from one end of
the borders of Egypt even to the other end thereof.

47:22 Only the land of the priests bought he not; for the priests had
a portion assigned them of Pharaoh, and did eat their portion which
Pharaoh gave them: wherefore they sold not their lands.

47:23 Then Joseph said unto the people, Behold, I have bought you this
day and your land for Pharaoh: lo, here is seed for you, and ye shall
sow the land.

It was dark in the car, no light had come on with the opening of the door, and I could barely see his face 
in the glow from the dashboard. The tires squealed as he spun around to face north, accelerating too 
quickly, swerving toward the stunned men on the street. I caught a glimpse of them diving for the 
sidewalk as we straightened out and sped toward the harbor. 

"Put on your seat belt," he commanded, and I realized I was clutching the seat with both hands. I quickly 
obeyed; the snap as the belt connected was loud in the darkness. He took a sharp left, racing forward, 
blowing through several stop signs without a pause. 

But I felt utterly safe and, for the moment, totally unconcerned about where we were going. I stared at his 
face in profound relief, relief that went beyond my sudden deliverance. I studied his flawless features in 
the limited light, waiting for my breath to return to normal, until it occurred to me that his expression was 



murderously angry. 

"Are you okay?" I asked, surprised at how hoarse my voice sounded. 
"No," he said curtly, and his tone was livid. 

I sat in silence, watching his face while his blazing eyes stared straight ahead, until the car came to a 
sudden stop. I glanced around, but it was too dark to see anything beside the vague outline of dark trees 
crowding the roadside. We weren't in town anymore. 

"Bella?" he asked, his voice tight, controlled. 

"Yes?" My voice was still rough. I tried to clear my throat quietly. 

"Are you all right?" He still didn't look at me, but the fury was plain on his face. 

"Yes," I croaked softly. 

"Distract me, please," he ordered. 

"I'm sorry, what?" 

He exhaled sharply. 

"Just prattle about something unimportant until I calm down," he clarified, closing his eyes and pinching 
the bridge of his nose with his thumb and forefinger. 

"Urn." I wracked my brain for something trivial. "I'm going to run over Tyler Crowley tomorrow before 
school?" 

He was still squeezing his eyes closed, but the comer of his mouth twitched. 
"Why?" 

"He's telling everyone that he's taking me to prom — either he's insane or he's still trying to make up for 
almost killing me last. . . well, you remember it, and he thinks prom is somehow the correct way to do 
this. So I figure if I endanger his life, then we're even, and he can't keep trying to make amends. I don't 
need enemies and maybe Lauren would back off if he left me alone. I might have to total his Sentra, 
though. If he doesn't have a ride he can't take anyone to prom. . . " I babbled on. 


47:24 And it shall come to pass in the increase, that ye shall give
the fifth part unto Pharaoh, and four parts shall be your own, for
seed of the field, and for your food, and for them of your households,
and for food for your little ones.

47:25 And they said, Thou hast saved our lives: let us find grace in
the sight of my lord, and we will be Pharaoh’s servants.

47:26 And Joseph made it a law over the land of Egypt unto this day,
that Pharaoh should have the fifth part, except the land of the
priests only, which became not Pharaoh’s.

47:27 And Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt, in the country of Goshen;
and they had possessions therein, and grew, and multiplied
exceedingly.

47:28 And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years: so the
whole age of Jacob was an hundred forty and seven years.

47:29 And the time drew nigh that Israel must die: and he called his
son Joseph, and said unto him, If now I have found grace in thy sight,
put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh, and deal kindly and truly
with me; bury me not, I pray thee, in Egypt: 47:30 But I will lie with
my fathers, and thou shalt carry me out of Egypt, and bury me in their
buryingplace. And he said, I will do as thou hast said.

47:31 And he said, Swear unto me. And he sware unto him. And Israel
bowed himself upon the bed’s head.

48:1 And it came to pass after these things, that one told Joseph,
Behold, thy father is sick: and he took with him his two sons,
Manasseh and Ephraim.

48:2 And one told Jacob, and said, Behold, thy son Joseph cometh unto
thee: and Israel strengthened himself, and sat upon the bed.

48:3 And Jacob said unto Joseph, God Almighty appeared unto me at Luz
in the land of Canaan, and blessed me, 48:4 And said unto me, Behold,
I will make thee fruitful, and multiply thee, and I will make of thee
a multitude of people; and will give this land to thy seed after thee
for an everlasting possession.

48:5 And now thy two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh, which were born unto
thee in the land of Egypt before I came unto thee into Egypt, are
mine; as Reuben and Simeon, they shall be mine.

48:6 And thy issue, which thou begettest after them, shall be thine,
and shall be called after the name of their brethren in their
inheritance.

48:7 And as for me, when I came from Padan, Rachel died by me in the
land of Canaan in the way, when yet there was but a little way to come
unto Ephrath: and I buried her there in the way of Ephrath; the same
is Bethlehem.

48:8 And Israel beheld Joseph’s sons, and said, Who are these? 48:9
And Joseph said unto his father, They are my sons, whom God hath given
me in this place. And he said, Bring them, I pray thee, unto me, and I
will bless them.

48:10 Now the eyes of Israel were dim for age, so that he could not
see.

And he brought them near unto him; and he kissed them, and embraced
them.

48:11 And Israel said unto Joseph, I had not thought to see thy face:
and, lo, God hath shewed me also thy seed.

48:12 And Joseph brought them out from between his knees, and he bowed
himself with his face to the earth.

48:13 And Joseph took them both, Ephraim in his right hand toward
Israel’s left hand, and Manasseh in his left hand toward Israel’s
right hand, and brought them near unto him.

48:14 And Israel stretched out his right hand, and laid it upon
Ephraim’s head, who was the younger, and his left hand upon Manasseh’s
head, guiding his hands wittingly; for Manasseh was the firstborn.

48:15 And he blessed Joseph, and said, God, before whom my fathers
Abraham and Isaac did walk, the God which fed me all my life long unto
this day, 48:16 The Angel which redeemed me from all evil, bless the
lads; and let my name be named on them, and the name of my fathers
Abraham and Isaac; and let them grow into a multitude in the midst of
the earth.

48:17 And when Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand upon the
head of Ephraim, it displeased him: and he held up his father’s hand,
to remove it from Ephraim’s head unto Manasseh’s head.

48:18 And Joseph said unto his father, Not so, my father: for this is
the firstborn; put thy right hand upon his head.

48:19 And his father refused, and said, I know it, my son, I know it:
he also shall become a people, and he also shall be great: but truly
his younger brother shall be greater than he, and his seed shall
become a multitude of nations.

48:20 And he blessed them that day, saying, In thee shall Israel
bless, saying, God make thee as Ephraim and as Manasseh: and he set
Ephraim before Manasseh.

48:21 And Israel said unto Joseph, Behold, I die: but God shall be
with you, and bring you again unto the land of your fathers.

48:22 Moreover I have given to thee one portion above thy brethren,
which I took out of the hand of the Amorite with my sword and with my
bow.

49:1 And Jacob called unto his sons, and said, Gather yourselves
together, that I may tell you that which shall befall you in the last
days.

49:2 Gather yourselves together, and hear, ye sons of Jacob; and
hearken unto Israel your father.

49:3 Reuben, thou art my firstborn, my might, and the beginning of my
strength, the excellency of dignity, and the excellency of power: 49:4
Unstable as water, thou shalt not excel; because thou wentest up to
thy father’s bed; then defiledst thou it: he went up to my couch.

49:5 Simeon and Levi are brethren; instruments of cruelty are in their
habitations.

49:6 O my soul, come not thou into their secret; unto their assembly,
mine honour, be not thou united: for in their anger they slew a man,
and in their selfwill they digged down a wall.

49:7 Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath, for it
was cruel: I will divide them in Jacob, and scatter them in Israel.

49:8 Judah, thou art he whom thy brethren shall praise: thy hand shall
be in the neck of thine enemies; thy father’s children shall bow down
before thee.

49:9 Judah is a lion’s whelp: from the prey, my son, thou art gone up:
he stooped down, he couched as a lion, and as an old lion; who shall
rouse him up? 49:10 The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, nor a
lawgiver from between his feet, until Shiloh come; and unto him shall
the gathering of the people be.

49:11 Binding his foal unto the vine, and his ass’s colt unto the
choice vine; he washed his garments in wine, and his clothes in the
blood of grapes: 49:12 His eyes shall be red with wine, and his teeth
white with milk.

49:13 Zebulun shall dwell at the haven of the sea; and he shall be for
an haven of ships; and his border shall be unto Zidon.

49:14 Issachar is a strong ass couching down between two burdens:
49:15 And he saw that rest was good, and the land that it was
pleasant; and bowed his shoulder to bear, and became a servant unto
tribute.

49:16 Dan shall judge his people, as one of the tribes of Israel.

49:17 Dan shall be a serpent by the way, an adder in the path, that
biteth the horse heels, so that his rider shall fall backward.

49:18 I have waited for thy salvation, O LORD.

49:19 Gad, a troop shall overcome him: but he shall overcome at the
last.

49:20 Out of Asher his bread shall be fat, and he shall yield royal
dainties.

49:21 Naphtali is a hind let loose: he giveth goodly words.

49:22 Joseph is a fruitful bough, even a fruitful bough by a well;
whose branches run over the wall: 49:23 The archers have sorely
grieved him, and shot at him, and hated him: 49:24 But his bow abode
in strength, and the arms of his hands were made strong by the hands
of the mighty God of Jacob; (from thence is the shepherd, the stone of
Israel:) 49:25 Even by the God of thy father, who shall help thee; and
by the Almighty, who shall bless thee with blessings of heaven above,
blessings of the deep that lieth under, blessings of the breasts, and
of the womb: 49:26 The blessings of thy father have prevailed above
the blessings of my progenitors unto the utmost bound of the
everlasting hills: they shall be on the head of Joseph, and on the
crown of the head of him that was separate from his brethren.

49:27 Benjamin shall ravin as a wolf: in the morning he shall devour
the prey, and at night he shall divide the spoil.

49:28 All these are the twelve tribes of Israel: and this is it that
their father spake unto them, and blessed them; every one according to
his blessing he blessed them.

49:29 And he charged them, and said unto them, I am to be gathered
unto my people: bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the
field of Ephron the Hittite, 49:30 In the cave that is in the field of
Machpelah, which is before Mamre, in the land of Canaan, which Abraham
bought with the field of Ephron the Hittite for a possession of a
buryingplace.

49:31 There they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife; there they buried
Isaac and Rebekah his wife; and there I buried Leah.

49:32 The purchase of the field and of the cave that is therein was
from the children of Heth.

49:33 And when Jacob had made an end of commanding his sons, he
gathered up his feet into the bed, and yielded up the ghost, and was
gathered unto his people.

50:1 And Joseph fell upon his father’s face, and wept upon him, and
kissed him.

50:2 And Joseph commanded his servants the physicians to embalm his
father: and the physicians embalmed Israel.

50:3 And forty days were fulfilled for him; for so are fulfilled the
days of those which are embalmed: and the Egyptians mourned for him
threescore and ten days.

50:4 And when the days of his mourning were past, Joseph spake unto
the house of Pharaoh, saying, If now I have found grace in your eyes,
speak, I pray you, in the ears of Pharaoh, saying, 50:5 My father made
me swear, saying, Lo, I die: in my grave which I have digged for me in
the land of Canaan, there shalt thou bury me. Now therefore let me go
up, I pray thee, and bury my father, and I will come again.

"Bella, I won't let anything hurt you — not even yourself. I won't let go of you once, I promise." 

I thought about that and suddenly felt much better. He could see that in my face. 

"There, now," he said gently, "it won't be so bad." He leaned down and wrapped one arm around my 



waist. I took his other hand and let him lift me from the car. 

He kept his arm tightly around me, supporting me as I limped toward the school. 

In Phoenix, they held proms in hotel ballrooms. This dance was in the gym, of course. It was probably 
the only room in town big enough for a dance. When we got inside, I giggled. There were actual balloon 
arches and twisted garlands of pastel crepe paper festooning the walls. 

"This looks like a horror movie waiting to happen," I snickered. 

"Well," he muttered as we slowly approached the ticket table — he was carrying most of my weight, but 
I still had to shuffle and wobble my feet forward — "there are more than enough vampires present." 

I looked at the dance floor; a wide gap had formed in the center of the floor, where two couples whirled 
gracefully. The other dancers pressed to the sides of the room to give them space — no one wanted to 
stand in contrast with such radiance. Emmett and Jasper were intimidating and flawless in classic tuxedos. 
Alice was striking in a black satin dress with geometric cutouts that bared large triangles of her snowy 
white skin. And Rosalie was. . . well, Rosalie. She was beyond belief. Her vivid scarlet dress was 
backless, tight to her calves where it flared into a wide ruffled train, with a neckline that plunged to her 
waist. I pitied every girl in the room, myself included. 

"Do you want me to bolt the doors so you can massacre the unsuspecting townsfolk?" I whispered 
conspiratorially. 

"And where do you fit into that scheme?" He glared. 

"Oh, I'm with the vampires, of course." 

He smiled reluctantiy. "Anything to get out of dancing." 

"Anything." 

He bought our tickets, then turned me toward the dance floor. I cringed against his arm and dragged my 
feet. 

"I've got all night," he warned. 

Eventually he towed me out to where his family was twirling elegantly — if in a style totally unsuitable to 
the present time and music. I watched in horror. 

"Edward." My throat was so dry I could only manage a whisper. "I honestly can't dance!" I could feel 
the panic bubbling up inside my chest. 

"Don't worry, silly," he whispered back. "I can." He put my arms around his neck and lifted me to slide 
his feet under mine. 

And then we were whirling, too. 

"I feel like I'm five years old," I laughed after a few minutes of effortless waltzing. 

"You don't look five," he murmured, pulling me closer for a second, so that my feet were briefly a foot 
from the ground. 

Alice caught my eye on a turn and smiled in encouragement — I smiled back. I was surprised to realize 
that I was actually enjoying myself. . . a little. 



"Okay, this isn't half bad," I admitted. 

But Edward was staring toward the doors, and his face was angry. 

"What is it?" I wondered aloud. I followed his gaze, disoriented by the spinning, but finally I could see 
what was bothering him. Jacob Black, not in a tux, but in a long-sleeved white shirt and tie, his hair 
smoothed back into his usual ponytail, was crossing the floor toward us. 

After the first shock of recognition, I couldn't help but feel bad for Jacob. He was clearly uncomfortable 
— excruciatingly so. His face was apologetic as his eyes met mine. 

Edward snarled very quietiy. 

"Behave \" I hissed. 

Edward's voice was scathing. "He wants to chat with you." 

Jacob reached us then, the embarrassment and apology even more evident on his face. 

"Hey, Bella, I was hoping you would be here." Jacob sounded like he'd been hoping the exact opposite. 
But his smile was just as warm as ever. 

"Hi, Jacob." I smiled back. "What's up?" 

"Can I cut in?" he asked tentatively, glancing at Edward for the first time. I was shocked to notice that 
Jacob didn't have to look up. He must have grown half a foot since the first time I'd seen him. 

Edward's face was composed, his expression blank. His only answer was to set me carefully on my feet, 
and take a step back. 

"Thanks," Jacob said amiably. 

Edward just nodded, looking at me intently before he turned to walk away. 
Jacob put his hands on my waist, and I reached up to put my hands on his shoulders. 
"Wow, Jake, how tall are you now?" 
He was smug. "Six-two." 

We weren't really dancing — my leg made that impossible. Instead we swayed awkwardly from side to 
side without moving our feet. It was just as well; the recent growth spurt had left him looking gangly and 
uncoordinated, he was probably no better a dancer than I was. 

"So, how did you end up here tonight?" I asked without true curiosity. Considering Edward's reaction, I 
could guess. 

"Can you believe my dad paid me twenty bucks to come to your prom?" he admitted, slightly ashamed. 

"Yes, I can," I muttered. "Well, I hope you're enjoying yourself, at least. Seen anything you like?" I 
teased, nodding toward a group of girls lined up against the wall like pastel confections. 

"Yeah," he sighed. "But she's taken." 

He glanced down to meet my curious gaze for just a second — then we both looked away, 
embarrassed. 



"You look really pretty, by the way," he added shyly. 

"Urn, thanks. So why did Billy pay you to come here?" I asked quickly, though I knew the answer. 

Jacob didn't seem grateful for the subject change; he looked away, uncomfortable again. "He said it was 
a 'safe' place to talk to you. I swear the old man is losing his mind." 

I joined in his laughter weakly. 

"Anyway, he said that if I told you something, he would get me that master cylinder I need," he confessed 
with a sheepish grin. 

"Tell me, then. I want you to get your car finished." I grinned back. At least Jacob didn't believe any of 
this. It made the situation a bit easier. Against the wall, Edward was watching my face, his own face 
expressionless. I saw a sophomore in a pink dress eyeing him with timid speculation, but he didn't seem 
to be aware of her. 

Jacob looked away again, ashamed. "Don't get mad, okay?" 

"There's no way I'll be mad at you, Jacob," I assured him. "I won't even be mad at Billy. Just say what 
you have to." 

"Well — this is so stupid, I'm sorry, Bella — he wants you to break up with your boyfriend. He asked 
me to tell you 'please.'" He shook his head in disgust. 

"He's still superstitious, eh?" 

"Yeah. He was. . . kind of over the top when you got hurt down in Phoenix. He didn't believe. . . "Jacob 
trailed off self-consciously. 

My eyes narrowed. "I fell." 

"I know that," Jacob said quickly. 

"He thinks Edward had something to do with me getting hurt." It wasn't a question, and despite my 
promise, I was angry. 

Jacob wouldn't meet my eyes. We weren't even bothering to sway to the music, though his hands were 
still on my waist, and mine around his neck. 

"Look, Jacob, I know Billy probably won't believe this, but just so you know" — he looked at me now, 
responding to the new earnestness in my voice — "Edward really did save my life. If it weren't for 
Edward and his father, I'd be dead." 

"I know," he claimed, but he sounded like my sincere words had affected him some. Maybe he'd be able 
to convince Billy of this much, at least. 

"Hey, I'm sorry you had to come do this, Jacob," I apologized. "At any rate, you get your parts, right?" 
"Yeah," he muttered. He was still looking awkward. . . upset. 
"There's more?" I asked in disbelief. 

"Forget it," he mumbled, "I'll get a job and save the money myself." 



I glared at him until he met my gaze. "Just spit it out, Jacob." 
"It's so bad." 

"I don't care. Tell me," I insisted. 

"Okay. . . but, geez, this sounds bad." He shook his head. "He said to tell you, no, to warn you, that — 
and this is his plural, not mine" — he lifted one hand from my waist and made little quotations marks in 
the air — '"We'll be watching.'" He watched warily for my reaction. 

It sounded like something from a mafia movie. I laughed out loud. 

"Sorry you had to do this, Jake," I snickered. 

"I don't mind that much." He grinned in relief. His eyes were appraising as they raked quickly over my 
dress. "So, should I tell him you said to butt the hell out?" he asked hopefully. 

"No," I sighed. "Tell him I said thanks. I know he means well." 

The song ended, and I dropped my arms. 

His hands hesitated at my waist, and he glanced at my bum leg. "Do you want to dance again? Or can I 
help you get somewhere?" 

Edward answered for me. "That's all right, Jacob. I'll take it from here." 
Jacob flinched, and stared wide-eyed at Edward, who stood just beside us. 

"Hey, I didn't see you there," he mumbled. "I guess I'll see you around, Bella." He stepped back, waving 
halfheartedly. 

I smiled. "Yeah, I'll see you later." 

"Sorry," he said again before he turned for the door. 

Edward's arms wound around me as the next song started. It was a little up-tempo for slow dancing, but 
that didn't seem to concern him. I leaned my head against his chest, content. 

"Feeling better?" I teased. 

"Not really," he said tersely. 

"Don't be mad at Billy," I sighed. "He just worries about me for Charlie's sake. It's nothing personal." 
"I'm not mad at Billy," he corrected in a clipped voice. "But his son is irritating me." 
I pulled back to look at him. His face was very serious. 
"Why?" 

"First of all, he made me break my promise." 
I stared at him in confusion. 

50:6 And Pharaoh said, Go up, and bury thy father, according as he
made thee swear.

50:7 And Joseph went up to bury his father: and with him went up all
the servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his house, and all the elders
of the land of Egypt, 50:8 And all the house of Joseph, and his
brethren, and his father’s house: only their little ones, and their
flocks, and their herds, they left in the land of Goshen.

50:9 And there went up with him both chariots and horsemen: and it was
a very great company.

50:10 And they came to the threshingfloor of Atad, which is beyond
Jordan, and there they mourned with a great and very sore lamentation:
and he made a mourning for his father seven days.

50:11 And when the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, saw the
mourning in the floor of Atad, they said, This is a grievous mourning
to the Egyptians: wherefore the name of it was called Abelmizraim,
which is beyond Jordan.

50:12 And his sons did unto him according as he commanded them: 50:13
For his sons carried him into the land of Canaan, and buried him in
the cave of the field of Machpelah, which Abraham bought with the
field for a possession of a buryingplace of Ephron the Hittite, before
Mamre.

50:14 And Joseph returned into Egypt, he, and his brethren, and all
that went up with him to bury his father, after he had buried his
father.

50:15 And when Joseph’s brethren saw that their father was dead, they
said, Joseph will peradventure hate us, and will certainly requite us
all the evil which we did unto him.

50:16 And they sent a messenger unto Joseph, saying, Thy father did
command before he died, saying, 50:17 So shall ye say unto Joseph,
Forgive, I pray thee now, the trespass of thy brethren, and their sin;
for they did unto thee evil: and now, we pray thee, forgive the
trespass of the servants of the God of thy father. And Joseph wept
when they spake unto him.

50:18 And his brethren also went and fell down before his face; and
they said, Behold, we be thy servants.

50:19 And Joseph said unto them, Fear not: for am I in the place of
God? 50:20 But as for you, ye thought evil against me; but God meant
it unto good, to bring to pass, as it is this day, to save much people
alive.

50:21 Now therefore fear ye not: I will nourish you, and your little
ones.

And he comforted them, and spake kindly unto them.

50:22 And Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he, and his father’s house: and
Joseph lived an hundred and ten years.

50:23 And Joseph saw Ephraim’s children of the third generation: the
children also of Machir the son of Manasseh were brought up upon
Joseph’s knees.

50:24 And Joseph said unto his brethren, I die: and God will surely
visit you, and bring you out of this land unto the land which he sware
to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.

50:25 And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, God
will surely visit you, and ye shall carry up my bones from hence.

50:26 So Joseph died, being an hundred and ten years old: and they
embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt.




The Second Book of Moses: Called Exodus


1:1 Now these are the names of the children of Israel, which came
into Egypt; every man and his household came with Jacob.

1:2 Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah, 1:3 Issachar, Zebulun, and
Benjamin, 1:4 Dan, and Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.

1:5 And all the souls that came out of the loins of Jacob were seventy
souls: for Joseph was in Egypt already.

1:6 And Joseph died, and all his brethren, and all that generation.

1:7 And the children of Israel were fruitful, and increased
abundantly, and multiplied, and waxed exceeding mighty; and the land
was filled with them.

1:8 Now there arose up a new king over Egypt, which knew not Joseph.

1:9 And he said unto his people, Behold, the people of the children of
Israel are more and mightier than we: 1:10 Come on, let us deal wisely
with them; lest they multiply, and it come to pass, that, when there
falleth out any war, they join also unto our enemies, and fight
against us, and so get them up out of the land.

1:11 Therefore they did set over them taskmasters to afflict them with
their burdens. And they built for Pharaoh treasure cities, Pithom and
Raamses.

1:12 But the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and
grew.

And they were grieved because of the children of Israel.

1:13 And the Egyptians made the children of Israel to serve with
rigour: 1:14 And they made their lives bitter with hard bondage, in
morter, and in brick, and in all manner of service in the field: all
their service, wherein they made them serve, was with rigour.

1:15 And the king of Egypt spake to the Hebrew midwives, of which the
name of the one was Shiphrah, and the name of the other Puah: 1:16 And
he said, When ye do the office of a midwife to the Hebrew women, and
see them upon the stools; if it be a son, then ye shall kill him: but
if it be a daughter, then she shall live.

1:17 But the midwives feared God, and did not as the king of Egypt
commanded them, but saved the men children alive.

1:18 And the king of Egypt called for the midwives, and said unto
them, Why have ye done this thing, and have saved the men children
alive? 1:19 And the midwives said unto Pharaoh, Because the Hebrew
women are not as the Egyptian women; for they are lively, and are
delivered ere the midwives come in unto them.

1:20 Therefore God dealt well with the midwives: and the people
multiplied, and waxed very mighty.

1:21 And it came to pass, because the midwives feared God, that he
made them houses.

1:22 And Pharaoh charged all his people, saying, Every son that is
born ye shall cast into the river, and every daughter ye shall save
alive.

2:1 And there went a man of the house of Levi, and took to wife a
daughter of Levi.

2:2 And the woman conceived, and bare a son: and when she saw him that
he was a goodly child, she hid him three months.

2:3 And when she could not longer hide him, she took for him an ark of
bulrushes, and daubed it with slime and with pitch, and put the child
therein; and she laid it in the flags by the river’s brink.

2:4 And his sister stood afar off, to wit what would be done to him.

2:5 And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to wash herself at the
river; and her maidens walked along by the river’s side; and when she
saw the ark among the flags, she sent her maid to fetch it.

2:6 And when she had opened it, she saw the child: and, behold, the
babe wept. And she had compassion on him, and said, This is one of the
Hebrews’ children.

2:7 Then said his sister to Pharaoh’s daughter, Shall I go and call to
thee a nurse of the Hebrew women, that she may nurse the child for
thee? 2:8 And Pharaoh’s daughter said to her, Go. And the maid went
and called the child’s mother.

2:9 And Pharaoh’s daughter said unto her, Take this child away, and
nurse it for me, and I will give thee thy wages. And the woman took
the child, and nursed it.

2:10 And the child grew, and she brought him unto Pharaoh’s daughter,
and he became her son. And she called his name Moses: and she said,
Because I drew him out of the water.

2:11 And it came to pass in those days, when Moses was grown, that he
went out unto his brethren, and looked on their burdens: and he spied
an Egyptian smiting an Hebrew, one of his brethren.

2:12 And he looked this way and that way, and when he saw that there
was no man, he slew the Egyptian, and hid him in the sand.

2:13 And when he went out the second day, behold, two men of the
Hebrews strove together: and he said to him that did the wrong,
Wherefore smitest thou thy fellow? 2:14 And he said, Who made thee a
prince and a judge over us? intendest thou to kill me, as thou
killedst the Egyptian? And Moses feared, and said, Surely this thing
is known.

.

2:20 And he said unto his daughters, And where is he? why is it that
ye have left the man? call him, that he may eat bread.

2:21 And Moses was content to dwell with the man: and he gave Moses
Zipporah his daughter.

2:22 And she bare him a son, and he called his name Gershom: for he
said, I have been a stranger in a strange land.

2:23 And it came to pass in process of time, that the king of Egypt
died: and the children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage, and
they cried, and their cry came up unto God by reason of the bondage.

Because, through the heavy water, I heard the sound of an angel calling my name, calling me to the only 
heaven I wanted. 

"Oh no, Bella, no!" the angel's voice cried in horror. 

Behind that longed-for sound was another noise — an awful tumult that my mind shied away from. A 
vicious bass growling, a shocking snapping sound, and a high keening, suddenly breaking off. . . 

I tried to concentrate on the angel's voice instead. 

"Bella, please! Bella, listen to me, please, please, Bella, please!" he begged. 
Yes, I wanted to say. Anything. But I couldn't find my lips. 

2:24 And God heard their groaning, and God remembered his covenant
with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob.

He studied my face apprehensively, and I sighed. It looked like clouds and a sense of humor didn't mix. 
A few months of this and I'd forget how to use sarcasm. 

We walked back around the cafeteria, to the south buildings by the gym. Eric walked me right to the 
door, though it was clearly marked. 

"Well, good luck," he said as I touched the handle. "Maybe we'll have some other classes together." He 
sounded hopeful. 

2:15 Now when Pharaoh heard this thing, he sought to slay Moses. But
Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh, and dwelt in the land of Midian:
and he sat down by a well.


2:18 And when they came to Reuel their father, he said, How is it that
ye are come so soon to day? 2:19 And they said, An Egyptian delivered
us out of the hand of the shepherds, and also drew water enough for
us, and watered the flock
I smiled at him vaguely and went inside. 

The rest of the morning passed in about the same fashion. My Trigonometry teacher, Mr. Varner, who I 
would have hated anyway just because of the subject he taught, was the only one who made me stand in 
front of the class and introduce myself. I stammered, blushed, and tripped over my own boots on the 
way to my seat. 

After two classes, I started to recognize several of the faces in each class. There was always someone 
braver than the others who would introduce themselves and ask me questions about how I was liking 
Forks. I tried to be diplomatic, but mostly I just lied a lot. At least I never needed the map. 

One girl sat next to me in both Trig and Spanish, and she walked with me to the cafeteria for lunch. She 
was tiny, several inches shorter than my five feet four inches, but her wildly curly dark hair made up a lot 



of the difference between our heights. I couldn't remember her name, so I smiled and nodded as she 
prattled about teachers and classes. I didn't try to keep up. 

We sat at the end of a full table with several of her friends, who she introduced to me. I forgot all their 
names as soon as she spoke them. They seemed impressed by her bravery in speaking to me. The boy 
from English, Eric, waved at me from across the room. 

It was there, sitting in the lunchroom, trying to make conversation with seven curious strangers, that I first 
saw them. 

They were sitting in the comer of the cafeteria, as far away from where I sat as possible in the long room. 
There were five of them. They weren't talking, and they weren't eating, though they each had a tray of 
untouched food in front of them. They weren't gawking at me, unlike most of the other students, so it was 
safe to stare at them without fear of meeting an excessively interested pair of eyes. But it was none of 
these things that caught, and held, my attention. 

They didn't look anything alike. Of the three boys, one was big — muscled like a serious weight lifter, 
with dark, curly hair. Another was taller, leaner, but still muscular, and honey blond. The last was lanky, 
less bulky, with untidy, bronze-colored hair. He was more boyish than the others, who looked like they 
could be in college, or even teachers here rather than students. 

The girls were opposites. The tall one was statuesque. She had a beautiful figure, the kind you saw on the 
cover of the Sports Illustrated swimsuit issue, the kind that made every girl around her take a hit on her 
self-esteem just by being in the same room. Her hair was golden, gently waving to the middle of her 
back. The short girl was pixielike, thin in the extreme, with small features. Her hair was a deep black, 
cropped short and pointing in every direction. 

And yet, they were all exactiy alike. Every one of them was chalky pale, the palest of all the students 
living in this sunless town. Paler than me, the albino. They all had very dark eyes despite the range in hair 
tones. They also had dark shadows under those eyes — purplish, bruiselike shadows. As if they were all 
suffering from a sleepless night, or almost done recovering from a broken nose. Though their noses, all 
their features, were straight, perfect, angular. 

But all this is not why I couldn't look away. 


2:25 And God looked upon the children of Israel, and God had respect
unto them.

3:1 Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro his father in law, the priest
of Midian: and he led the flock to the backside of the desert, and
came to the mountain of God, even to Horeb.

3:2 And the angel of the LORD appeared unto him in a flame of fire out
of the midst of a bush: and he looked, and, behold, the bush burned
with fire, and the bush was not consumed.

3:3 And Moses said, I will now turn aside, and see this great sight,
why the bush is not burnt.

3:4 And when the LORD saw that he turned aside to see, God called unto
him out of the midst of the bush, and said, Moses, Moses. And he said,
Here am I.

3:5 And he said, Draw not nigh hither: put off thy shoes from off thy
feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground.

3:6 Moreover he said, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham,
the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face; for he
was afraid to look upon God.

3:7 And the LORD said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people
which are in Egypt, and have heard their cry by reason of their
taskmasters; for I know their sorrows; 3:8 And I am come down to
deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up
out of that land unto a good land and a large, unto a land flowing
with milk and honey; unto the place of the Canaanites, and the
Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and
the Jebusites.

3:9 Now therefore, behold, the cry of the children of Israel is come
unto me: and I have also seen the oppression wherewith the Egyptians
oppress them.

3:10 Come now therefore, and I will send thee unto Pharaoh, that thou
mayest bring forth my people the children of Israel out of Egypt.

3:11 And Moses said unto God, Who am I, that I should go unto Pharaoh,
and that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt?
3:12 And he said, Certainly I will be with thee; and this shall be a
token unto thee, that I have sent thee: When thou hast brought forth
the people out of Egypt, ye shall serve God upon this mountain.

3:13 And Moses said unto God, Behold, when I come unto the children of
Israel, and shall say unto them, The God of your fathers hath sent me
unto you; and they shall say to me, What is his name? what shall I say
unto them? 3:14 And God said unto Moses, I AM THAT I AM: and he said,
Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, I AM hath sent me
unto you.

3:15 And God said moreover unto Moses, Thus shalt thou say unto the
children of Israel, the LORD God of your fathers, the God of Abraham,
the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, hath sent me unto you: this is
my name for ever, and this is my memorial unto all generations.

3:16 Go, and gather the elders of Israel together, and say unto them,
The LORD God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of
Jacob, appeared unto me, saying, I have surely visited you, and seen
that which is done to you in Egypt: 3:17 And I have said, I will bring
you up out of the affliction of Egypt unto the land of the Canaanites,
and the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the
Hivites, and the Jebusites, unto a land flowing with milk and honey.

3:18 And they shall hearken to thy voice: and thou shalt come, thou
and the elders of Israel, unto the king of Egypt, and ye shall say
unto him, The LORD God of the Hebrews hath met with us: and now let us
go, we beseech thee, three days’ journey into the wilderness, that we
may sacrifice to the LORD our God.

3:19 And I am sure that the king of Egypt will not let you go, no, not
by a mighty hand.

3:20 And I will stretch out my hand, and smite Egypt with all my
wonders which I will do in the midst thereof: and after that he will
let you go.

3:21 And I will give this people favour in the sight of the Egyptians:
and it shall come to pass, that, when ye go, ye shall not go empty.

3:22 But every woman shall borrow of her neighbour, and of her that
sojourneth in her house, jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and
raiment: and ye shall put them upon your sons, and upon your
daughters; and ye shall spoil the Egyptians.

4:1 And Moses answered and said, But, behold, they will not believe
me, nor hearken unto my voice: for they will say, The LORD hath not
appeared unto thee.



4:7 And he said, Put thine hand into thy bosom again. And he put his
hand into his bosom again; and plucked it out of his bosom, and,
behold, it was turned again as his other flesh.

4:8 And it shall come to pass, if they will not believe thee, neither
hearken to the voice of the first sign, that they will believe the
voice of the latter sign.

4:9 And it shall come to pass, if they will not believe also these two
signs, neither hearken unto thy voice, that thou shalt take of the
water of the river, and pour it upon the dry land: and the water which
thou takest out of the river shall become blood upon the dry land.



4:16 And he shall be thy spokesman unto the people: and he shall be,
even he shall be to thee instead of a mouth, and thou shalt be to him
instead of God.

4:17 And thou shalt take this rod in thine hand, wherewith thou shalt
do signs.

4:18 And Moses went and returned to Jethro his father in law, and said
unto him, Let me go, I pray thee, and return unto my brethren which
are in Egypt, and see whether they be yet alive. And Jethro said to
Moses, Go in peace.

4:19 And the LORD said unto Moses in Midian, Go, return into Egypt:
for all the men are dead which sought thy life.

My mother drove me to the airport with the windows rolled down. It was seventy-five degrees in 
Phoenix, the sky a perfect, cloudless blue. I was wearing my favorite shirt — sleeveless, white eyelet 
lace; I was wearing it as a farewell gesture. My carry-on item was a parka. 

In the Olympic Peninsula of northwest Washington State, a small town named Forks exists under a 
near-constant cover of clouds. It rains on this inconsequential town more than any other place in the 
United States of America. It was from this town and its gloomy, omnipresent shade that my mother 
escaped with me when I was only a few months old. It was in this town that I'd been compelled to spend 
a month every summer until I was fourteen. That was the year I finally put my foot down; these past three 
summers, my dad, Charlie, vacationed with me in California for two weeks instead. 

It was to Forks that I now exiled myself — an action that I took with great horror. I detested Forks. 

I loved Phoenix. I loved the sun and the blistering heat. I loved the vigorous, sprawling city. 

"Bella," my mom said to me — the last of a thousand times — before I got on the plane. "You don't have 
to do this." 

My mom looks like me, except with short hair and laugh lines. I felt a spasm of panic as I stared at her 
wide, childlike eyes. How could I leave my loving, erratic, harebrained mother to fend for herself? Of 
course she had Phil now, so the bills would probably get paid, there would be food in the refrigerator, 
gas in her car, and someone to call when she got lost, but still. . . 

"I want to go," I lied. I'd always been a bad liar, but I'd been saying this lie so frequently lately that it 
sounded almost convincing now. 

"TeU Charlie I said hi." 

"I will." 

"I'll see you soon," she insisted. "You can come home whenever you want — I'll come right back as soon 
as you need me." 

But I could see the sacrifice in her eyes behind the promise. 
"Don't worry about me," I urged. "It'll be great. I love you, Mom." 



She hugged me tightly for a minute, and then I got on the plane, and she was gone. 

It's a four-hour flight from Phoenix to Seattle, another hour in a small plane up to Port Angeles, and then 
an hour drive back down to Forks. Flying doesn't bother me; the hour in the car with Charlie, though, I 
was a little worried about. 

Charlie had really been fairly nice about the whole thing. He seemed genuinely pleased that I was coming 
to live with him for the first time with any degree of permanence. He'd already gotten me registered for 
high school and was going to help me get a car. 

But it was sure to be awkward with Charlie. Neither of us was what anyone would call verbose, and I 
didn't know what there was to say regardless. I knew he was more than a little confused by my decision 
— like my mother before me, I hadn't made a secret of my distaste for Forks. 

When I landed in Port Angeles, it was raining. I didn't see it as an omen — just unavoidable. I'd already 
said my goodbyes to the sun. 

Charlie was waiting for me with the cruiser. This I was expecting, too. Charlie is Police Chief Swan to the 
good people of Forks. My primary motivation behind buying a car, despite the scarcity of my funds, was 
that I refused to be driven around town in a car with red and blue lights on top. Nothing slows down 
traffic like a cop. 

Charlie gave me an awkward, one-armed hug when I stumbled my way off the plane. 

"It's good to see you, Bells," he said, smiling as he automatically caught and steadied me. "You haven't 
changed much. How's Renee?" 

"Mom's fine. It's good to see you, too, Dad." I wasn't allowed to call him Charlie to his face. 

I had only a few bags. Most of my Arizona clothes were too permeable for Washington. My mom and I 
had pooled our resources to supplement my winter wardrobe, but it was still scanty. It all fit easily into 
the trunk of the cruiser. 

"I found a good car for you, really cheap," he announced when we were strapped in. 

"What kind of car?" I was suspicious of the way he said "good car for you " as opposed to just "good 
car." 

"Well, it's a truck actually, a Chevy." 
"Where did you find it?" 

"Do you remember Billy Black down at La Push?" La Push is the tiny Indian reservation on the coast. 
"No." 

"He used to go fishing with us during the summer," Charlie prompted. 

That would explain why I didn't remember him. I do a good job of blocking painful, unnecessary things 
from my memory. 

"He's in a wheelchair now," Charlie continued when I didn't respond, "so he can't drive anymore, and he 
offered to sell me his truck cheap." 

"What year is it?" I could see from his change of expression that this was the question he was hoping I 



wouldn't ask. 



"Well, Billy's done a lot of work on the engine — it's only a few years old, really." 

I hoped he didn't think so lMe of me as to believe I would give up that easily. "When did he buy it?" 

"He bought it in 1984, 1 think." 

"Did he buy it new?" 

"Well, no. I think it was new in the early sixties — or late fifties at the earliest," he admitted sheepishly. 

"Ch — Dad, I don't really know anything about cars. I wouldn't be able to fix it if anything went wrong, 
and I couldn't afford a mechanic ..." 

"Really, Bella, the thing runs great. They don't build them like that anymore." 

2:16 Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters: and they came and
drew water, and filled the troughs to water their father’s flock.

2:17 And the shepherds came and drove them away: but Moses stood up
and helped them, and watered their flock.


The thing, I thought to myself. . . it had possibilities — as a nickname, at the very least. 

"How cheap is cheap?" After all, that was the part I couldn't compromise on. 

"Well, honey, I kind of already bought it for you. As a homecoming gift." Charlie peeked sideways at me 
with a hopeful expression. 

Wow. Free. 

"You didn't need to do that, Dad. I was going to buy myself a car." 

"I don't mind. I want you to be happy here." He was looking ahead at the road when he said this. Charlie 
wasn't comfortable with expressing his emotions out loud. I inherited that from him. So I was looking 
straight ahead as I responded. 

"That's really nice, Dad. Thanks. I really appreciate it." No need to add that my being happy in Forks is 
an impossibility. He didn't need to suffer along with me. And I never looked a free truck in the mouth — 
or engine. 

"Well, now, you're welcome," he mumbled, embarrassed by my thanks. 

We exchanged a few more comments on the weather, which was wet, and that was pretty much it for 
Conversation. We stared out the windows in silence. 

It was beautiful, of course; I couldn't deny that. Everything was green: the trees, their trunks covered with 
moss, their branches hanging with a canopy of it, the ground covered with ferns. Even the air filtered 
down greenly through the leaves. 

It was too green — an alien planet. 

Eventually we made it to Charlie's. He still lived in the small, two-bedroom house that he'd bought with 
my mother in the early days of their marriage. Those were the only kind of days their marriage had — the 
early ones. There, parked on the street in front of the house that never changed, was my new — well, 
new to me — truck. It was a faded red color, with big, rounded fenders and a bulbous cab. To my 
intense surprise, I loved it. I didn't know if it would run, but I could see myself in it. Plus, it was one of 
those solid iron affairs that never gets damaged — the kind you see at the scene of an accident, paint 
unscratched, surrounded by the pieces of the foreign car it had destroyed. 



"Wow, Dad, I love it! Thanks!" Now my horrific day tomorrow would be just that much less dreadful. I 
wouldn't be faced with the choice of either walking two miles in the rain to school or accepting a ride in 
the Chiefs cruiser. 

"I'm glad you like it," Charlie said gruffly, embarrassed again. 

It took only one trip to get all my stuff upstairs. I got the west bedroom that faced out over the front yard. 
The room was familiar; it had been belonged to me since I was bom. The wooden floor, the light blue 
walls, the peaked ceiling, the yellowed lace curtains around the window — these were all a part of my 
childhood. The only changes Charlie had ever made were switching the crib for a bed and adding a desk 
as I grew. The desk now held a secondhand computer, with the phone line for the modem stapled along 
the floor to the nearest phone jack. This was a stipulation from my mother, so that we could stay in touch 
easily. The rocking chair from my baby days was still in the comer. 

There was only one small bathroom at the top of the stairs, which I would have to share with Charlie. I 
was trying not to dwell too much on that fact. 

One of the best things about Charlie is he doesn't hover. He left me alone to unpack and get settled, a 
feat that would have been altogether impossible for my mother. It was nice to be alone, not to have to 
smile and look pleased; a relief to stare dejectedly out the window at the sheeting rain and let just a few 
tears escape. I wasn't in the mood to go on a real crying jag. I would save that for bedtime, when I 
would have to think about the corning morning. 

Forks High School had a frightening total of only three hundred and fifty-seven — now fifty-eight — 
students; there were more than seven hundred people in my junior class alone back home. All of the kids 
here had grown up together — their grandparents had been toddlers together. 

I would be the new girl from the big city, a curiosity, a freak. 

Maybe, if I looked like a girl from Phoenix should, I could work this to my advantage. But physically, I'd 
never fit in anywhere. I should be tan, sporty, blond — a volleyball player, or a cheerleader, perhaps — 
all the things that go with living in the valley of the sun. 

Instead, I was ivory-skinned, without even the excuse of blue eyes or red hair, despite the constant 
sunshine. I had always been slender, but soft somehow, obviously not an athlete; I didn't have the 
necessary hand-eye coordination to play sports without humihating myself — and harming both myself 
and anyone else who stood too close. 

When I finished putting my clothes in the old pine dresser, I took my bag of bathroom necessities and 
went to the communal bathroom to clean myself up after the day of travel. I looked at my face in the 
mirror as I brushed through my tangled, damp hair. Maybe it was the light, but already I looked sallower, 
unhealthy. My skin could be pretty — it was very clear, almost translucent-looking — but it all depended 
on color. I had no color here. 

Facing my pallid reflection in the mirror, I was forced to admit that I was lying to myself. It wasn't just 
physically that I'd never fit in. And if I couldn't find a niche in a school with three thousand people, what 
were my chances here? 

I didn't relate well to people my age. Maybe the truth was that I didn't relate well to people, period. Even 
my mother, who I was closer to than anyone else on the planet, was never in harmony with me, never on 
exactly the same page. Sometimes I wondered if I was seeing the same things through my eyes that the 
rest of the world was seeing through theirs. Maybe there was a glitch in my brain. But the cause didn't 
matter. All that mattered was the effect. And tomorrow would be just the beginning. 



I didn't sleep well that night, even after I was done crying. The constant whooshing of the rain and wind 
across the roof wouldn't fade into the background. I pulled the faded old quilt over my head, and later 
added the pillow, too. But I couldn't fall asleep until after midnight, when the rain finally settled into a 
quieter drizzle. 

4:10 And Moses said unto the LORD, O my LORD, I am not eloquent,
neither heretofore, nor since thou hast spoken unto thy servant: but I
am slow of speech, and of a slow tongue.

I stared because their faces, so different, so similar, were all devastatingly, inhumanly beautiful. They 
were faces you never expected to see except perhaps on the airbrushed pages of a fashion magazine. Or 
painted by an old master as the face of an angel. It was hard to decide who was the most beautiful — 
maybe the perfect blond girl, or the bronze-haired boy. 

4:11 And the LORD said unto him, Who hath made man’s mouth? or who
maketh the dumb, or deaf, or the seeing, or the blind? have not I the
LORD? 4:12 Now therefore go, and I will be with thy mouth, and teach
thee what thou shalt say.




They were all looking away — away from each other, away from the other students, away from anything 
in particular as far as I could tell. As I watched, the small girl rose with her tray — unopened soda, 
unbitten apple — and walked away with a quick, graceful lope that belonged on a runway. I watched, 
amazed at her lithe dancer's step, till she dumped her tray and glided through the back door, faster than I 
would have thought possible. My eyes darted back to the others, who sat unchanging. 


4:15 And thou shalt speak unto him, and put words in his mouth: and I
will be with thy mouth, and with his mouth, and will teach you what ye
shall do.

Thick fog was all I could see out my window in the morning, and I could feel the claustrophobia creeping 
up on me. You could never see the sky here; it was like a cage. 

Breakfast with Charlie was a quiet event. He wished me good luck at school. I thanked him, knowing his 
hope was wasted. Good luck tended to avoid me. Charlie left first, off to the police station that was his 
wife and family. After he left, I sat at the old square oak table in one of the three unmatching chairs and 
examined his small kitchen, with its dark paneled walls, bright yellow cabinets, and white linoleum floor. 
Nothing was changed. My mother had painted the cabinets eighteen years ago in an attempt to bring 
some sunshine into the house. Over the small fireplace in the adjoining handkerchief-sized family room 
was a row of pictures. First a wedding picture of Charlie and my mom in Las Vegas, then one of the 
three of us in the hospital after I was bom, taken by a helpful nurse, followed by the procession of my 
school pictures up to last year's. Those were embarrassing to look at — I would have to see what I 
could do to get Charlie to put them somewhere else, at least while I was living here. 

It was impossible, being in this house, not to realize that Charlie had never gotten over my mom. It made 
me uncomfortable. 

I didn't want to be too early to school, but I couldn't stay in the house anymore. I donned my jacket — 
which had the feel of a biohazard suit — and headed out into the rain. 

It was just drizzling still, not enough to soak me through immediately as I reached for the house key that 
was always hidden under the eaves by the door, and locked up. The sloshing of my new waterproof 
boots was unnerving. I missed the normal crunch of gravel as I walked. I couldn't pause and admire my 
truck again as I wanted; I was in a hurry to get out of the misty wet that swirled around my head and 
clung to my hair under my hood. 

Inside the truck, it was nice and dry. Either Billy or Charlie had obviously cleaned it up, but the tan 
upholstered seats still smelled faintiy of tobacco, gasoline, and peppermint. The engine started quickly, to 
my relief, but loudly, roaring to life and then idling at top volume. Well, a truck this old was bound to 
have a flaw. The antique radio worked, a plus that I hadn't expected. 

Finding the school wasn't difficult, though I'd never been there before. The school was, like most other 
things, just off the highway. It was not obvious that it was a school; only the sign, which declared it to be 
the Forks High School, made me stop. It looked like a collection of matching houses, built with 
maroon-colored bricks. There were so many trees and shrubs I couldn't see its size at first. Where was 
the feel of the institution? I wondered nostalgically. Where were the chain-link fences, the metal 
detectors? 

I parked in front of the first building, which had a small sign over the door reading front office. No one 
else was parked there, so I was sure it was off limits, but I decided I would get directions inside instead 
of circling around in the rain like an idiot. I stepped unwillingly out of the toasty truck cab and walked 
down a little stone path lined with dark hedges. I took a deep breath before opening the door. 

Inside, it was brightly lit, and warmer than I'd hoped. The office was small; a little waiting area with 
padded folding chairs, orange-flecked commercial carpet, notices and awards cluttering the walls, a big 
clock ticking loudly. Plants grew everywhere in large plastic pots, as if there wasn't enough greenery 



outside. The room was cut in half by a long counter, cluttered with wire baskets full of papers and 
brightiy colored flyers taped to its front. There were three desks behind the counter, one of which was 
manned by a large, red-haired woman wearing glasses. She was wearing a purple t-shirt, which 
immediately made me feel overdressed. 

The red-haired woman looked up. "Can I help you?" 

"I'm Isabella Swan," I informed her, and saw the immediate awareness light her eyes. I was expected, a 
topic of gossip no doubt. Daughter of the Chiefs flighty ex-wife, come home at last. 

"Of course," she said. She dug through a precariously stacked pile of documents on her desk till she 
found the ones she was looking for. "I have your schedule right here, and a map of the school." She 
brought several sheets to the counter to show roe. 

She went through my classes for me, highlighting the best route to each on the map, and gave me a slip to 
have each teacher sign, which I was to bring back at the end of the day. She smiled at me and hoped, 
like Charlie, that I would like it here in Forks. I smiled back as convincingly as I could. 

When I went back out to my truck, other students were starting to arrive. I drove around the school, 
following the line of traffic. I was glad to see that most of the cars were older like mine, nothing flashy. At 
home I'd lived in one of the few lower-income neighborhoods that were included in the Paradise Valley 
District. It was a common thing to see a new Mercedes or Porsche in the student lot. The nicest car here 
was a shiny Volvo, and it stood out. Still, I cut the engine as soon as I was in a spot, so that the 
thunderous volume wouldn't draw attention to me. 

I looked at the map in the truck, trying to memorize it now; hopefully I wouldn't have to walk around with 
it stuck in front of my nose all day. I stuffed everything in my bag, slung the strap over my shoulder, and 
sucked in a huge breath. I can do this, I lied to myself feebly. No one was going to bite me. I finally 
exhaled and stepped out of the truck. 

I kept my face pulled back into my hood as I walked to the sidewalk, crowded with teenagers. My plain 
black jacket didn't stand out, I noticed with relief. 

Once I got around the cafeteria, building three was easy to spot. A large black "3" was painted on a 
white square on the east corner. I felt my breathing gradually creeping toward hyperventilation as I 
approached the door. I tried holding my breath as I followed two unisex raincoats through the door. 

The classroom was small. The people in front of me stopped just inside the door to hang up their coats 
on a long row of hooks. I copied them. They were two girls, one a porcelain-colored blonde, the other 
also pale, with light brown hair. At least my skin wouldn't be a standout here. 

I took the slip up to the teacher, a tall, balding man whose desk had a nameplate identifying him as Mr. 
Mason. He gawked at me when he saw my name — not an encouraging response — and of course I 
flushed tomato red. But at least he sent me to an empty desk at the back without introducing me to the 
class. It was harder for my new classmates to stare at me in the back, but somehow, they managed. I 
kept my eyes down on the reading list the teacher had given me. It was fairly basic: Bronte, Shakespeare, 
Chaucer, Faulkner. I'd already read everything. That was comforting. . . and boring. I wondered if my 
mom would send me my folder of old essays, or if she would think that was cheating. I went through 
different arguments with her in my head while the teacher droned on. 

When the bell rang, a nasal buzzing sound, a gangly boy with skin problems and hair black as an oil slick 
leaned across the aisle to talk to me. 



"You're Isabella Swan, aren't you?" He looked like the overly helpful, chess club type. 
"Bella," I corrected. Everyone within a three-seat radius turned to look at me. 
"Where's your next class?" he asked. 

I had to check in my bag. "Urn, Government, with Jefferson, in building six." 
There was nowhere to look without meeting curious eyes. 

"I'm headed toward building four, I could show you the way. . ." Definitely over-helpful. "I'm Eric," he 
added. 

I smiled tentatively. "Thanks." 

We got our jackets and headed out into the rain, which had picked up. I could have sworn several 
people behind us were walking close enough to eavesdrop. I hoped I wasn't getting paranoid. 

"So, this is a lot different than Phoenix, huh?" he asked. 

"Very." 

"It doesn't rain much there, does it?" 

"Three or four times a year." 

"Wow, what must that be like?" he wondered. 

"Sunny," I told him. 

"You don't look very tan." 

"My mother is part albino." 




"Who are theyT I asked the girl from my Spanish class, whose name I'd forgotten. 

As she looked up to see who I meant — though already knowing, probably, from my tone — suddenly 
he looked at her, the thinner one, the boyish one, the youngest, perhaps. He looked at my neighbor for 
just a fraction of a second, and then his dark eyes flickered to mine. 

He looked away quickly, more quickly than I could, though in a flush of embarrassment I dropped my 



eyes at once. In that brief flash of a glance, his face held nothing of interest — it was as if she had called 
his name, and he'd looked up in involuntary response, already having decided not to answer. 

My neighbor giggled in embarrassment, looking at the table like I did. 

"That's Edward and Emmett Cullen, and Rosalie and Jasper Hale. The one who left was Alice Cullen; 
they all live together with Dr. Cullen and his wife." She said this under her breath. 

I glanced sideways at the beautiful boy, who was looking at his tray now, picking a bagel to pieces with 
long, pale fingers. His mouth was moving very quickly, his perfect lips barely opening. The other three still 
looked away, and yet I felt he was speaking quietly to them. 

Strange, unpopular names, I thought. The kinds of names grandparents had. But maybe that was in vogue 
here — small town names? I finally remembered that my neighbor was called Jessica, a perfectly 
common name. There were two girls named Jessica in my History class back home. 

"They are. . . very nice-looking." I struggled with the conspicuous understatement. 

"Yes!" Jessica agreed with another giggle. "They're all together though — Emmett and Rosalie, and 
Jasper and Alice, I mean. And they live together." Her voice held all the shock and condemnation of the 
small town, I thought critically. But, if I was being honest, I had to admit that even in Phoenix, it would 
cause gossip. 

"Which ones are the Cullens?" I asked. "They don't look related. . . " 

"Oh, they're not. Dr. Cullen is really young, in his twenties or early thirties. They're all adopted. The 
Hales are brother and sister, twins — the blondes — and they're foster children." 

"They look a little old for foster children." 

"They are now, Jasper and Rosalie are both eighteen, but they've been with Mrs. Cullen since they were 
eight. She's their aunt or something like that." 

"That's really kind of nice — for them to take care of all those kids like that, when they're so young and 
everything." 

"I guess so," Jessica admitted reluctantly, and I got the impression that she didn't like the doctor and his 
wife for some reason. With the glances she was throwing at their adopted children, I would presume the 
reason was jealousy. "I think that Mrs. Cullen can't have any kids, though," she added, as if that lessened 
their kindness. 

Throughout all this conversation, my eyes flickered again and again to the table where the strange family 
sat. They continued to look at the walls and not eat. 

"Have they always lived in Forks?" I asked. Surely I would have noticed them on one of my summers 
here. 

"No," she said in a voice that implied it should be obvious, even to a new arrival like me. "They just 
moved down two years ago from somewhere in Alaska." 

I felt a surge of pity, and relief. Pity because, as beautiful as they were, they were outsiders, clearly not 
accepted. Relief that I wasn't the only newcomer here, and certainly not the most interesting by any 
standard. 



As I examined them, the youngest, one of the Cullens, looked up and met my gaze, this time with evident 
curiosity in his expression. As I looked swiftly away, it seemed to me that his glance held some kind of 
unmet expectation. 

"Which one is the boy with the reddish brown hair?" I asked. I peeked at him from the corner of my eye, 
and he was still staring at me, but not gawking like the other students had today — he had a slightly 
frustrated expression. I looked down again. 

"That's Edward. He's gorgeous, of course, but don't waste your time. He doesn't date. Apparently none 
of the girls here are good-looking enough for him." She sniffed, a clear case of sour grapes. I wondered 
when he'd turned her down. 

I bit my hp to hide my smile. Then I glanced at him again. His face was turned away, but I thought his 
cheek appeared lifted, as if he were smiling, too. 

After a few more minutes, the four of them left the table together. They all were noticeably graceful — 
even the big, brawny one. It was unsettling to watch. The one named Edward didn't look at me again. 

I sat at the table with Jessica and her friends longer than I would have if I'd been sitting alone. I was 
anxious not to be late for class on my first day. One of my new acquaintances, who considerately 
reminded me that her name was Angela, had Biology U with me the next hour. We walked to class 
together in silence. She was shy, too. 

When we entered the classroom, Angela went to sit at a black-topped lab table exactly like the ones I 
was used to. She already had a neighbor. In fact, all the tables were filled but one. Next to the center 
aisle, I recognized Edward Cullen by his unusual hair, sitting next to that single open seat. 

As I walked down the aisle to introduce myself to the teacher and get my slip signed, I was watching him 
surreptitiously. Just as I passed, he suddenly went rigid in his seat. He stared at me again, meeting my 
eyes with the strangest expression on his face — it was hostile, furious. I looked away quickly, shocked, 
going red again. I stumbled over a book in the walkway and had to catch myself on the edge of a table. 
The girl sitting there giggled. 

4:13 And he said, O my LORD, send, I pray thee, by the hand of him
whom thou wilt send.

4:14 And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Moses, and he said,
Is not Aaron the Levite thy brother? I know that he can speak well.
And also, behold, he cometh forth to meet thee: and when he seeth
thee, he will be glad in his heart.

I'd noticed that his eyes were black — coal black. 

Mr. Banner signed my slip and handed me a book with no nonsense about introductions. I could tell we 
were going to get along. Of course, he had no choice but to send me to the one open seat in the middle 
of the room. I kept my eyes down as I went to sit by him, bewildered by the antagonistic stare he'd given 
me. 

I didn't look up as I set my book on the table and took my seat, but I saw his posture change from the 
comer of my eye. He was leaning away from me, sitting on the extreme edge of his chair and averting his 
face like he smelled something bad. Inconspicuously, I sniffed my hair. It smelled like strawberries, the 
scent of my favorite shampoo. It seemed an innocent enough odor. I let my hair fall over my right 
shoulder, making a dark curtain between us, and tried to pay attention to the teacher. 

Unfortunately the lecture was on cellular anatomy, something I'd already studied. I took notes carefully 
anyway, always looking down. 

I couldn't stop myself from peeking occasionally through the screen of my hair at the strange boy next to 
me. During the whole class, he never relaxed his stiff position on the edge of his chair, sitting as far from 
me as possible. I could see his hand on his left leg was clenched into a fist, tendons standing out under his 
pale skin. This, too, he never relaxed. He had the long sleeves of his white shirt pushed up to his elbows, 



and his forearm was surprisingly hard and muscular beneath his light skin. He wasn't nearly as slight as 
he'd looked next to his burly brother. 

The class seemed to drag on longer than the others. Was it because the day was finally coming to a 
close, or because I was waiting for his tight fist to loosen? It never did; he continued to sit so still it 
looked like he wasn't breathing. What was wrong with him? Was this his normal behavior? I questioned 
my judgment on Jessica's bitterness at lunch today. Maybe she was not as resentful as I'd thought. 

It couldn't have anything to do with me. He didn't know me from Eve. 

I peeked up at him one more time, and regretted it. He was glaring down at me again, his black eyes full 
of revulsion. As I flinched away from him, slirinking against my chair, the phrase if looks could kill 
suddenly ran through my mind. 

At that moment, the bell rang loudly, making me jump, and Edward Cullen was out of his seat. Fluidly he 
rose — he was much taller than I'd thought — his back to me, and he was out the door before anyone 
else was out of their seat. 

I sat frozen in my seat, staring blankly after him. He was so mean. It wasn't fair. I began gathering up my 
things slowly, trying to block the anger that filled me, for fear my eyes would tear up. For some reason, 
my temper was hardwired to my tear ducts. I usually cried when I was angry, a humiliating tendency. 

"Aren't you Isabella Swan?" a male voice asked. 

I looked up to see a cute, baby-faced boy, his pale blond hair carefully gelled into orderly spikes, smiling 
at me in a friendly way. He obviously didn't think I smelled bad. 

"Bella," I corrected him, with a smile. 

TmMike." 

"Hi, Mike." 

"Do you need any help finding your next class?" 
"I'm headed to the gym, actually. I think I can find it." 

"That's my next class, too." He seemed thrilled, though it wasn't that big of a coincidence in a school this 
small. 

We walked to class together; he was a chatterer — he supplied most of the conversation, which made it 
easy for me. He'd lived in California till he was ten, so he knew how I felt about the sun. It turned out he 
was in my English class also. He was the nicest person I'd met today. 

But as we were entering the gym, he asked, "So, did you stab Edward Cullen with a pencil or what? I've 
never seen him act like that." 

I cringed. So I wasn't the only one who had noticed. And, apparently, that wasn 't Edward Cullen's usual 
behavior. I decided to play dumb. 

"Was that the boy I sat next to in Biology?" I asked artlessly. 
"Yes," he said. "He looked like he was in pain or something." 
"I don't know," I responded. "I never spoke to him." 



"He's a weird guy." Mike lingered by me instead of heading to the dressing room. "If I were lucky enough 
to sit by you, I would have talked to you." 

I smiled at him before walking through the girls' locker room door. He was friendly and clearly admiring. 
But it wasn't enough to ease my irritation. 



He was arguing with her in a low, attractive voice. I quickly picked up the gist of the argument. He was 
trying to trade from sixth-hour Biology to another time — any other time. 

I just couldn't believe that this was about me. It had to be something else, something that happened 
before I entered the Biology room. The look on his face must have been about another aggravation 
entirely. It was impossible that this stranger could take such a sudden, intense dislike to me. 

The door opened again, and the cold wind suddenly gusted through the room, rusthng the papers on the 
desk, swirling my hair around my face. The girl who came in merely stepped to the desk, placed a note in 
the wire basket, and walked out again. But Edward Cullen's back stiffened, and he turned slowly to glare 
at me — his face was absurdly handsome — with piercing, hate-filled eyes. For an instant, I felt a thrill of 
genuine fear, raising the hair on my arms. The look only lasted a second, but it chilled me more than the 
freezing wind. He turned back to the receptionist. 

"Never mind, then," he said hastily in a voice like velvet. "I can see that it's impossible. Thank you so 
much for your help." And he turned on his heel without another look at me, and disappeared out the 
door. 

I went meekly to the desk, my face white for once instead of red, and handed her the signed slip. 
"How did your first day go, dear?" the receptionist asked maternally. 
"Fine," I lied, my voice weak. She didn't look convinced. 

4:2 And the LORD said unto him, What is that in thine hand? And he
said, A rod.

4:3 And he said, Cast it on the ground. And he cast it on the ground,
and it became a serpent; and Moses fled from before it.



4:6 And the LORD said furthermore unto him, Put now thine hand into
thy bosom. And he put his hand into his bosom: and when he took it
out, behold, his hand was leprous as snow.

When I got to the truck, it was almost the last car in the lot. It seemed like a haven, already the closest 
thing to home I had in this damp green hole. I sat inside for a while, just staring out the windshield 
blankly. But soon I was cold enough to need the heater, so I turned the key and the engine roared to life. 
I headed back to Charlie's house, fighting tears the whole way there. 



2. OPEN BOOK 



The next day was better. . . and worse. 

It was better because it wasn't raining yet, though the clouds were dense and opaque. It was easier 
because I knew what to expect of my day. Mike came to sit by me in English, and walked me to my next 
class, with Chess Club Eric glaring at him all the while; that was nattering. People didn't look at me quite 
as much as they had yesterday. I sat with a big group at lunch that included Mike, Eric, Jessica, and 
several other people whose names and faces I now remembered. I began to feel like I was treading 
water, instead of drowning in it. 

It was worse because I was tired; I still couldn't sleep with the wind echoing around the house. It was 
worse because Mr. Varner called on me in Trig when my hand wasn't raised and I had the wrong 
answer. It was miserable because I had to play volleyball, and the one time I didn't cringe out of the way 
of the ball, I hit my teammate in the head with it. And it was worse because Edward Cullen wasn't in 
school at all. 

All morning I was dreading lunch, fearing his bizarre glares. Part of me wanted to confront him and 
demand to know what his problem was. While I was lying sleepless in my bed, I even imagined what I 
would say. But I knew myself too well to think I would really have the guts to do it. I made the Cowardly 
Lion look like the terminator. 

But when I walked into the cafeteria with Jessica — trying to keep my eyes from sweeping the place for 
him, and failing entirely — I saw that his four siblings of sorts were sitting together at the same table, and 
he was not with them. 

Mike intercepted us and steered us to his table. Jessica seemed elated by the attention, and her friends 
quickly joined us. But as I tried to listen to their easy chatter, I was terribly uncomfortable, waiting 
nervously for the moment he would arrive. I hoped that he would simply ignore me when he came, and 
prove my suspicions false. 

He didn't come, and as time passed I grew more and more tense. 

I walked to Biology with more confidence when, by the end of lunch, he still hadn't showed. Mike, who 
was taking on the qualities of a golden retriever, walked faithfully by my side to class. I held my breath at 
the door, but Edward Cullen wasn't there, either. I exhaled and went to my seat. Mike followed, talking 
about an upcoming trip to the beach. He lingered by my desk till the bell rang. Then he smiled at me 
wistfully and went to sit by a girl with braces and a bad perm. It looked like I was going to have to do 
something about Mike, and it wouldn't be easy. In a town like this, where everyone lived on top of 
everyone else, diplomacy was essential. I had never been enormously tactful; I had no practice dealing 
with overly friendly boys. 

I was relieved that I had the desk to myself, that Edward was absent. I told myself that repeatedly. But I 
couldn't get rid of the nagging suspicion that I was the reason he wasn't there. It was ridiculous, and 
egotistical, to think that I could affect anyone that strongly. It was impossible. And yet I couldn't stop 
worrying that it was true. 

When the school day was finally done, and the blush was fading out of my cheeks from the volleyball 
incident, I changed quickly back into my jeans and navy blue sweater. I hurried from the girls' locker 
room, pleased to find that I had successfully evaded my retriever friend for the moment. I walked swiftly 
out to the parking lot. It was crowded now with fleeing students. I got in my truck and dug through my 
bag to make sure I had what I needed. 

Last night I'd discovered that Charlie couldn't cook much besides fried eggs and bacon. So I requested 



that I be assigned kitchen detail for the duration of my stay. He was willing enough to hand over the keys 
to the banquet hall. I also found out that he had no food in the house. So I had my shopping list and the 
cash from the jar in the cupboard labeled FOOD MONEY, and I was on my way to the Thriftway. 

4:4 And the LORD said unto Moses, Put forth thine hand, and take it by
the tail. And he put forth his hand, and caught it, and it became a
rod in his hand: 4:5 That they may believe that the LORD God of their
fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob,
hath appeared unto thee.

The Gym teacher, Coach Clapp, found me a uniform but didn't make me dress down for today's class. 
At home, only two years of RE. were required. Here, P.E. was mandatory all four years. Forks was 
literally my personal hell on Earth. 

I watched four volleyball games running simultaneously. Remembering how many injuries I had sustained 
— and inflicted — playing volleyball, I felt faintly nauseated. 

The final bell rang at last. I walked slowly to the office to return my paperwork. The rain had drifted 
away, but the wind was strong, and colder. I wrapped my arms around myself. 

When I walked into the warm office, I almost turned around and walked back out. 

Edward Cullen stood at the desk in front of me. I recognized again that tousled bronze hair. He didn't 
appear to notice the sound of my entrance. I stood pressed against the back wall, waiting for the 
receptionist to be free. 



I had decided to read Wuthering Heights — the novel we were currently studying in English — yet 
again for the fun of it, and that's what I was doing when Charlie came home. I'd lost track of the time, 
and I hurried downstairs to take the potatoes out and put the steak in to broil. 

"Bella?" my father called out when he heard me on the stairs. 

Who else? I thought to myself. 

"Hey, Dad, welcome home." 

"Thanks." He hung up his gun belt and stepped out of his boots as I bustled about the kitchen. As far as I 
was aware, he'd never shot the gun on the job. But he kept it ready. When I came here as a child, he 
would always remove the bullets as soon as he walked in the door. I guess he considered me old enough 
now not to shoot myself by accident, and not depressed enough to shoot myself on purpose. 

"What's for dinner?" he asked warily. My mother was an imaginative cook, and her experiments weren't 



always edible. I was surprised, and sad, that he seemed to remember that far back. 
"Steak and potatoes," I answered, and he looked relieved. 

He seemed to feel awkward standing in the kitchen doing nothing; he lumbered into the living room to 
watch TV while I worked. We were both more comfortable that way. I made a salad while the steaks 
cooked, and set the table. 

I called him in when dinner was ready, and he sniffed appreciatively as he walked into the room. 

"Smells good, Bell." 

"Thanks." 

We ate in silence for a few minutes. It wasn't uncomfortable. Neither of us was bothered by the quiet. In 
some ways, we were well suited for living together. 

"So, how did you like school? Have you made any friends?" he asked as he was taking seconds. 

"Well, I have a few classes with a girl named Jessica. I sit with her friends at lunch. And there's this boy, 
Mike, who's very friendly. Everybody seems pretty nice." With one outstanding exception. 

"That must be Mike Newton. Nice kid — nice family. His dad owns the sporting goods store just outside 
of town. He makes a good living off all the backpackers who come through here." 

"Do you know the Cullen family?" I asked hesitantiy. 

"Dr. Cullen's family? Sure. Dr. Cullen's a great man." 

"They. . . the kids. . . are a little different. They don't seem to fit in very well at school." 
Charlie surprised me by looking angry. 

"People in this town," he muttered. "Dr. Cullen is a brilliant surgeon who could probably work in any 
hospital in the world, make ten times the salary he gets here," he continued, getting louder. "We're lucky 
to have him — lucky that his wife wanted to live in a small town. He's an asset to the community, and all 
of those kids are well behaved and polite. I had my doubts, when they first moved in, with all those 
adopted teenagers. I thought we might have some problems with them. But they're all very mature — I 
haven't had one speck of trouble from any of them. That's more than I can say for the children of some 
folks who have lived in this town for generations. And they stick together the way a family should — 
camping trips every other weekend. . . Just because they're newcomers, people have to talk." 

It was the longest speech I'd ever heard Charlie make. He must feel strongly about whatever people 
were saying. 

I backpedaled. "They seemed nice enough to me. I just noticed they kept to themselves. They're all very 
attractive," I added, trying to be more complimentary. 

"You should see the doctor," Charlie said, laughing. "It's a good thing he's happily married. A lot of the 
nurses at the hospital have a hard time concentrating on their work with him around." 

We lapsed back into silence as we finished eating. He cleared the table while I started on the dishes. He 
went back to the TV, and after I finished washing the dishes by hand — no dishwasher — I went 
upstairs unwillingly to work on my math homework. I could feel a tradition in the making. 



That night it was finally quiet. I fell asleep quickly, exhausted. 

The rest of the week was uneventful. I got used to the routine of my classes. By Friday I was able to 
recognize, if not name, almost all the students at school. In Gym, the kids on my team learned not to pass 
me the ball and to step quickly in front of me if the other team tried to take advantage of my weakness. I 
happily stayed out of their way. 

Edward Cullen didn't come back to school. 

Every day, I watched anxiously until the rest of the Cullens entered the cafeteria without him. Then I 
could relax and join in the lunchtime conversation. Mostly it centered around a trip to the La Push Ocean 
Park in two weeks that Mike was putting together. I was invited, and I had agreed to go, more out of 
politeness than desire. Beaches should be hot and dry. 

By Friday I was perfectly comfortable entering my Biology class, no longer worried that Edward would 
be there. For all I knew, he had dropped out of school. I tried not to think about him, but I couldn't 
totally suppress the worry that I was responsible for his continued absence, ridiculous as it seemed. 

My first weekend in Forks passed without incident. Charlie, unused to spending time in the usually empty 
house, worked most of the weekend. I cleaned the house, got ahead on my homework, and wrote my 
mom more bogusly cheerful e-mail. I did drive to the library Saturday, but it was so poorly stocked that I 
didn't bother to get a card; I would have to make a date to visit Olympia or Seattle soon and find a good 
bookstore. I wondered idly what kind of gas mileage the truck got. . . and shuddered at the thought. 

The rain stayed soft over the weekend, quiet, so I was able to sleep well. 

People greeted me in the parking lot Monday morning. I didn't know all their names, but I waved back 
and smiled at everyone. It was colder this morning, but happily not raining. In English, Mike took his 
accustomed seat by my side. We had a pop quiz on Wuthering Heights. It was straightforward, very 
easy. 

All in all, I was feeling a lot more comfortable than I had thought I would feel by this point. More 
comfortable than I had ever expected to feel here. 

When we walked out of class, the air was full of swirling bits of white. I could hear people shouting 
excitedly to each other. The wind bit at my cheeks, my nose. 

"Wow," Mike said. "It's snowing." 

I looked at the little cotton fluffs that were building up along the sidewalk and swirling erratically past my 
face. 

"Ew." Snow. There went my good day. 
He looked surprised. "Don't you like snow?" 

"No. That means it's too cold for rain." Obviously. "Besides, I thought it was supposed to come down in 
flakes — you know, each one unique and all that. These just look like the ends of Q-tips." 

"Haven't you ever seen snow fall before?" he asked incredulously. 

"Sure I have." I paused. "On TV." 

Mike laughed. And then a big, squishy ball of dripping snow smacked into the back of his head. We both 



turned to see where it came from. I had my suspicions about Eric, who was walking away, his back 
toward us — in the wrong direction for his next class. Mike appatently had the same notion. He bent 
over and began scraping together a pile of the white mush. 

"I'll see you at lunch, okay?" I kept walking as I spoke. "Once people start throwing wet stuff, I go 
inside." 

He just nodded, his eyes on Eric's retreating figure. 

Throughout the morning, everyone chattered excitedly about the snow; apparentiy it was the first snowfall 
of the new year. I kept my mouth shut. Sure, it was drier than rain — until it melted in your socks. 

I walked alertly to the cafeteria with Jessica after Spanish. Mush balls were flying everywhere. I kept a 
binder in my hands, ready to use it as a shield if necessary. Jessica thought I was hilarious, but something 
in my expression kept her from lobbing a snowball at me herself. 

Mike caught up to us as we walked in the doors, laughing, with ice melting the spikes in his hair. He and 
Jessica were talking animatedly about the snow fight as we got in line to buy food. I glanced toward that 
table in the comer out of habit. And then I froze where I stood. There were five people at the table. 

Jessica pulled on my arm. 

"Hello? Bella? What do you want?" 

I looked down; my ears were hot. I had no reason to feel self-conscious, I reminded myself. I hadn't 
done anything wrong. 

"What's with Bella?" Mike asked Jessica. 

"Nothing," I answered. "I'll just get a soda today." I caught up to the end of the line. 
"Aren't you hungry?" Jessica asked. 

"Actually, I feel a little sick," I said, my eyes still on the floor. 

I waited for them to get their food, and then followed them to a table, my eyes on my feet. 

I sipped my soda slowly, my stomach churning. Twice Mike asked, with unnecessary concern, how I 
was feeling. 

I told him it was nothing, but I was wondering if I should play it up and escape to the nurse's office for 
the next hour. 

Ridiculous. I shouldn't have to run away. 

I decided to permit myself one glance at the Cullen family's table. If he was glaring at me, I would skip 
Biology, like the coward I was. 

I kept my head down and glanced up under my lashes. None of them were looking this way. I lifted my 
head a little. 

They were laughing. Edward, Jasper, and Emmett all had their hair entirely saturated with melting snow. 
Alice and Rosalie were leaning away as Emmett shook his dripping hair toward them. They were 
enjoying the snowy day, just like everyone else — only they looked more like a scene from a movie than 
the rest of us. 



But, aside from the laughter and playfulness, there was something different, and I couldn't quite pinpoint 
what that difference was. I examined Edward the most carefully. His skin was less pale, I decided — 
flushed from the snow fight maybe — the circles under his eyes much less noticeable. But there was 
something more. I pondered, staring, trying to isolate the change. 

"Bella, what are you staring at?" Jessica intruded, her eyes following my stare. 

At that precise moment, his eyes flashed over to meet mine. 

I dropped my head, letting my hair fall to conceal my face. I was sure, though, in the instant our eyes met, 
that he didn't look harsh or unfriendly as he had the last time I'd seen him. He looked merely curious 
again, unsatisfied in some way. 

"Edward Cullen is staring at you," Jessica giggled in my ear. 

"He doesn't look angry, does he?" I couldn't help asking. 

"No," she said, sounding confused by my question. "Should he be?" 

"I don't think he likes me," I confided. I still felt queasy. I put my head down on my arm. 

"The Cullens don't like anybody. . . well, they don't notice anybody enough to like them. But he's still 
staring at you." 

"Stop looking at him," I hissed. 

She snickered, but she looked away. I raised my head enough to make sure that she did, contemplating 
violence if she resisted. 

Mike interrupted us then — he was planning an epic battle of the blizzard in the parking lot after school 
and wanted us to join. Jessica agreed enthusiastically. The way she looked at Mike left little doubt that 
she would be up for anything he suggested. I kept silent. I would have to hide in the gym until the parking 
lot cleared. 

For the rest of the lunch hour I very carefully kept my eyes at my own table. I decided to honor the 
bargain I'd made with myself. Since he didn't look angry, I would go to Biology. My stomach did 
frightened little flips at the thought of sitting next to him again. 

I didn't really want to walk to class with Mike as usual — he seemed to be a popular target for the 
snowball snipers — but when we went to the door, everyone besides me groaned in unison. It was 
raining, washing all traces of the snow away in clear, icy ribbons down the side of the walkway. I pulled 
my hood up, secretiy pleased. I would be free to go straight home after Gym. 

Mike kept up a string of complaints on the way to building four. 

Once inside the classroom, I saw with relief that my table was still empty. Mr. Banner was walking 
around the room, distributing one microscope and box of slides to each table. Class didn't start for a few 
minutes, and the room buzzed with conversation. I kept my eyes away from the door, doodling idly on 
the cover of my notebook. 

I heard very clearly when the chair next to me moved, but my eyes stayed carefully focused on the 
pattern I was drawing. 



"Hello," said a quiet, musical voice. 



I looked up, stunned that he was speaking to me. He was sitting as far away from me as the desk 
allowed, but his chair was angled toward me. His hair was dripping wet, disheveled — even so, he 
looked like he'd just finished shooting a commercial for hair gel. His dazzling face was friendly, open, a 
slight smile on his flawless hps. But his eyes were careful. 

"My name is Edward Cullen," he continued. "I didn't have a chance to introduce myself last week. You 
must be Bella Swan." 

My mind was spinning with confusion. Had I made up the whole thing? He was perfectly polite now. 

3. PHENOMENON 





"Get Tyler out of the van!" someone else shouted. 

There was a flurry of activity around us. I tried to get up, but Edward's cold hand pushed my shoulder 
down. 

"Just stay put for now." 

"But it's cold," I complained. It surprised me when he chuckled under his breath. There was an edge to 
the sound. 

"You were over there," I suddenly remembered, and his chuckle stopped short. "You were by your car." 
His expression turned hard. "No, I wasn't." 

"I saw you." All around us was chaos. I could hear the gruffer voices of adults arriving on the scene. But I 
obstinately held on to our argument; I was right, and he was going to admit it. 

"Bella, I was standing with you, and I pulled you out of the way." He unleashed the full, devastating 
power of his eyes on me, as if trying to communicate something crucial. 

"No." I set my jaw. 

The gold in his eyes blazed. "Please, Bella." 
"Why?" I demanded. 

"Trust me," he pleaded, his soft voice overwhelming. 

I could hear the sirens now. "Will you promise to explain everything to me later?" 
"Fine," he snapped, abruptly exasperated. 
"Fine," I repeated angrily. 

It took six EMTs and two teachers — Mr. Varner and Coach Clapp — to shift the van far enough away 
from us to bring the stretchers in. Edward vehemently refused his, and I tried to do the same, but the 
traitor told them I'd hit my head and probably had a concussion. I almost died of humiliation when they 
put on the neck brace. It looked like the entire school was there, watching soberly as they loaded me in 
the back of the ambulance. Edward got to ride in the front. It was maddening. 

To make matters worse, Chief Swan arrived before they could get me safely away. 

"Bella!" he yelled in panic when he recognized me on the stretcher. 

"I'm completely fine, Char — Dad," I sighed. "There's nothing wrong with me." 

He turned to the closest EMT for a second opinion. I tuned him out to consider the jumble of inexplicable 
images churning chaotically in my head. When they'd lifted me away from the car, I had seen the deep 
dent in the tan car's bumper — a very distinct dent that fit the contours of Edward's shoulders. . . as if he 
had braced himself against the car with enough force to damage the metal frame. . . 

And then there was his family, looking on from the distance, with expressions that ranged from 
disapproval to fury but held no hint of concern for their brother's safety. 

I tried to think of a logical solution that could explain what I had just seen — a solution that excluded the 



assumption that I was insane. 

Naturally, the ambulance got a police escort to the county hospital. I felt ridiculous the whole time they 
were unloading me. What made it worse was that Edward simply glided through the hospital doors under 
his own power. I ground my teeth together. 

They put me in the emergency room, a long room with a line of beds separated by pastel-patterned 
curtains. A nurse put a pressure cuff on my arm and a thermometer under my tongue. Since no one 
bothered pulling the curtain around to give me some privacy, I decided I wasn't obligated to wear the 
stupid-looking neck brace anymore. When the nurse walked away, I quickly unfastened the Velcro and 
threw it under the bed. 

There was another flurry of hospital personnel, another stretcher brought to the bed next to me. I 
recognized Tyler Crowley from my Government class beneath the bloodstained bandages wrapped 
tightly around his head. Tyler looked a hundred times worse than I felt. But he was staring anxiously at 
me. 

"Bella, I'm so sorry!" 

"I'm fine, Tyler — you look awful, are you all right?" As we spoke, nurses began unwinding his soiled 
bandages, exposing a myriad of shallow slices all over his forehead and left cheek. 

He ignored me. "I thought I was going to kill you! I was going too fast, and I hit the ice wrong. . . " He 
winced as one nurse started dabbing at his face. 

"Don't worry about it; you missed me." 

"How did you get out of the way so fast? You were there, and then you were gone. . . " 
"Umm. . . Edward pulled me out of the way." 
He looked confused. "Who?" 

"Edward Cullen — he was standing next to me." I'd always been a terrible liar; I didn't sound convincing 
at all. 

"Cullen? I didn't see him. . . wow, it was all so fast, I guess. Is he okay?" 

"I think so. He's here somewhere, but they didn't make him use a stretcher." 

I knew I wasn't crazy. What had happened? There was no way to explain away what I'd seen. 

They wheeled me away then, to X-ray my head. I told them there was nothing wrong, and I was right. 
Not even a concussion. I asked if I could leave, but the nurse said I had to talk to a doctor first. So I was 
trapped in the ER, waiting, harassed by Tyler's constant apologies and promises to make it up to me. No 
matter how many times I tried to convince him I was fine, he continued to torment himself. Finally, I 
closed my eyes and ignored him. He kept up a remorseful mumbling. 

"Is she sleeping?" a musical voice asked. My eyes flew open. 

Edward was standing at the foot of my bed, smirking. I glared at him. It wasn't easy — it would have 
been more natural to ogle. 

"Hey, Edward, I'm really sorry — " Tyler began. 



Edward lifted a hand to stop him. 

"No blood, no foul," he said, flashing his brilliant teeth. He moved to sit on the edge of Tyler's bed, facing 
me. He smirked again. 

"So, what's the verdict?" he asked me. 

"There's nothing wrong with me at all, but they won't let me go," I complained. "How come you aren't 
strapped to a gurney like the rest of us?" 

"It's all about who you know," he answered. "But don't worry, I came to spring you." 

Then a doctor walked around the comer, and my mouth fell open. He was young, he was blond. . . and 
he was handsomer than any movie star I'd ever seen. He was pale, though, and tired-looking, with circles 
under his eyes. From Charlie's description, this had to be Edward's father. 

"So, Miss Swan," Dr. Cullen said in a remarkably appealing voice, "how are you feeling?" 

"I'm fine," I said, for the last time, I hoped. 

He walked to the lightboard on the wall over my head, and turned it on. 

"Your X-rays look good," he said. "Does your head hurt? Edward said you hit it pretty hard." 

"It's fine," I repeated with a sigh, throwing a quick scowl toward Edward. 

The doctor's cool fingers probed lightly along my skull. He noticed when I winced. 

"Tender?" he asked. 

"Not really." I'd had worse. 

I heard a chuckle, and looked over to see Edward's patronizing smile. My eyes narrowed. 

"Well, your father is in the waiting room — you can go home with him now. But come back if you feel 
dizzy or have trouble with your eyesight at all." 

"Can't I go back to school?" I asked, imagining Charlie trying to be attentive. 

"Maybe you should take it easy today." 

I glanced at Edward. "Does he get to go to school?" 

"Someone has to spread the good news that we survived," Edward said smugly. 
"Actually," Dr. Cullen corrected, "most of the school seems to be in the waiting room." 
"Oh no," I moaned, covering my face with my hands. 
Dr. Cullen raised his eyebrows. "Do you want to stay?" 

"No, no!" I insisted, throwing my legs over the side of the bed and hopping down quickly. Too quickly 
— I staggered, and Dr. Cullen caught me. He looked concerned. 

"I'm fine," I assured him again. No need to tell him my balance problems had nothing to do with hitting my 
head. 



"Take some Tylenol for the pain," he suggested as he steadied me. 
"It doesn't hurt that bad," I insisted. 

"It sounds like you were extremely lucky," Dr. Cullen said, smiling as he signed my chart with a flourish. 

"Lucky Edward happened to be standing next to me," I amended with a hard glance at the subject of my 
statement. 

"Oh, well, yes," Dr. Cullen agreed, suddenly occupied with the papers in front of him. Then he looked 
away, at Tyler, and walked to the next bed. My intuition flickered; the doctor was in on it. 

"I'm afraid that you '11 have to stay with us just a little bit longer," he said to Tyler, and began checking his 
cuts. 

As soon as the doctor's back was turned, I moved to Edward's side. 

"Can I talk to you for a minute?" I hissed under my breath. He took a step back from me, his jaw 
suddenly clenched. 

"Your father is waiting for you," he said through his teeth. 
I glanced at Dr. Cullen and Tyler. 

"I'd like to speak with you alone, if you don't mind," I pressed. 

He glared, and then turned his back and strode down the long room. I nearly had to run to keep up. As 
soon as we turned the comer into a short hallway, he spun around to face me. 

"What do you want?" he asked, sounding annoyed. His eyes were cold. 

His unfriendliness intimidated me. My words came out with less severity than I'd intended. "You owe me 
an explanation," I reminded him. 

"I saved your life — I don't owe you anything." 

I flinched back from the resentment in his voice. "You promised." 

"Bella, you hit your head, you don't know what you're talking about." His tone was cutting. 

My temper flared now, and I glared defiantly at him. "There's nothing wrong with my head." 

He glared back. "What do you want from me, Bella?" 

"I want to know the truth," I said. "I want to know why I'm lying for you." 

"What do you think happened?" he snapped. 

It came out in a rush. 

"All I know is that you weren't anywhere near me — Tyler didn't see you, either, so don't tell me I hit my 
head too hard. That van was going to crush us both — and it didn't, and your hands left dents in the side 
of it — and you left a dent in the other car, and you're not hurt at all — and the van should have smashed 
my legs, but you were holding it up. . . " I could hear how crazy it sounded, and I couldn't continue. I was 
so mad I could feel the tears coming; I tried to force them back by grinding my teeth together. 



He was staring at me incredulously. But his face was tense, defensive. 

"You think I lifted a van off you?" His tone questioned my sanity, but it only made me more suspicious. It 
was like a perfectiy delivered line by a skilled actor. 

I merely nodded once, jaw tight. 

"Nobody will believe that, you know." His voice held an edge of derision now. 

"I'm not going to tell anybody." I said each word slowly, carefully controlling my anger. 

Surprise flitted across his face. "Then why does it matter?" 

"It matters to me," I insisted. "I don't like to lie — so there'd better be a good reason why I'm doing it." 

"Can't you just thank me and get over it?" 

"Thank you." I waited, fuming and expectant. 

"You're not going to let it go, are you?" 

"No." 

"In that case. . . I hope you enjoy disappointment." 

We scowled at each other in silence. I was the first to speak, trying to keep myself focused. I was in 
danger of being distracted by his livid, glorious face. It was like trying to stare down a destroying angel. 

"Why did you even bother?" I asked frigidly. 

He paused, and for a brief moment his stunning face was unexpectedly vulnerable. 

"I don't know," he whispered. 

And then he turned his back on me and walked away. 

I was so angry, it took me a few minutes until I could move. When I could walk, I made my way slowly 
to the exit at the end of the hallway. 

The waiting room was more unpleasant than I'd feared. It seemed like every face I knew in Forks was 
there, staring at me. Charlie rushed to my side; I put up my hands. 

"There's nothing wrong with me," I assured him sullenly. I was still aggravated, not in the mood for 
chitchat. 

"What did the doctor say?" 

"Dr. Cullen saw me, and he said I was fine and I could go home." I sighed. Mike and Jessica and Eric 
were all there, beginning to converge on us. "Let's go," I urged. 

Charlie put one arm behind my back, not quite touching me, and led me to the glass doors of the exit. I 
waved sheepishly at my friends, hoping to convey that they didn't need to worry anymore. It was a huge 
relief — the first time I'd ever felt that way — to get into the cruiser. 

We drove in silence. I was so wrapped up in my thoughts that I barely knew Charlie was there. I was 
positive that Edward's defensive behavior in the hall was a confirmation of the bizarre things I still could 



hardly believe I'd witnessed. 



When we got to the house, Charlie finally spoke. 

"Um. . . you'll need to call Renee." He hung his head, guilty. 

I was appalled. "You told Mom!" 

"Sorry." 

I slammed the cruiser's door a little harder than necessary on my way out. 

My mom was in hysterics, of course. I had to tell her I felt fine at least thirty times before she would calm 
down. She begged me to come home — forgetting the fact that home was empty at the moment — but 
her pleas were easier to resist than I would have thought. I was consumed by the mystery Edward 
presented. And more than a little obsessed by Edward himself. Stupid, stupid, stupid. I wasn't as eager 
to escape Forks as I should be, as any normal, sane person would be. 

I decided I might as well go to bed early that night. Charlie continued to watch me anxiously, and it was 
getting on my nerves. I stopped on my way to grab three Tylenol from the bathroom. They did help, and, 
as the pain eased, I drifted to sleep. 

That was the first night I dreamed of Edward Cullen. 
4. INVITATIONS 



In my dream it was very dark, and what dim light there was seemed to be radiating from Edward's skin. I 
couldn't see his face, just his back as he walked away from me, leaving me in the blackness. No matter 
how fast I ran, I couldn't catch up to him; no matter how loud I called, he never turned. Troubled, I woke 
in the middle of the night and couldn't sleep again for what seemed like a very long time. After that, he 
was in my dreams nearly every night, but always on the periphery, never within reach. 

The month that followed the accident was uneasy, tense, and, at first, embarrassing. 

To my dismay, I found myself the center of attention for the rest of that week. Tyler Crowley was 
impossible, following me around, obsessed with making amends to me somehow. I tried to convince him 
what I wanted more than anything else was for him to forget all about it — especially since nothing had 
actually happened to me — but he remained insistent. He followed me between classes and sat at our 
now-crowded lunch table. Mike and Eric were even less friendly toward him than they were to each 
other, which made me worry that I'd gained another unwelcome fan. 

No one seemed concerned about Edward, though I explained over and over that he was the hero — 
how he had pulled me out of the way and had nearly been crushed, too. I tried to be convincing. Jessica, 
Mike, Eric, and everyone else always commented that they hadn't even seen him there till the van was 
pulled away. 

I wondered to myself why no one else had seen him standing so far away, before he was suddenly, 
impossibly saving my life. With chagrin, I realized the probable cause — no one else was as aware of 
Edward as I always was. No one else watched him the way I did. How pitiful. 

Edward was never surrounded by crowds of curious bystanders eager for his firsthand account. People 



avoided him as usual. The Cullens and the Hales sat at the same table as always, not eating, talking only 
among themselves. None of them, especially Edward, glanced my way anymore. 

When he sat next to me in class, as far from me as the table would allow, he seemed totally unaware of 
my presence. Only now and then, when his fists would suddenly ball up — skin stretched even whiter 
over the bones — did I wonder if he wasn't quite as oblivious as he appeared. 

He wished he hadn't pulled me from the path of Tyler's van — there was no other conclusion I could 
come to. 

I wanted very much to talk to him, and the day after the accident I tried. The last time I'd seen him, 
outside the ER, we'd both been so furious. I still was angry that he wouldn't trust me with the truth, even 
though I was keeping my part of the bargain flawlessly. But he had in fact saved my life, no matter how 
he'd done it. And, overnight, the heat of my anger faded into awed gratitude. 

He was already seated when I got to Biology, looking straight ahead. I sat down, expecting him to turn 
toward me. He showed no sign that he realized I was there. 

"Hello, Edward," I said pleasantly, to show him I was going to behave myself. 

He turned his head a fraction toward me without meeting my gaze, nodded once, and then looked the 
other way. 

And that was the last contact I'd had with him, though he was there, a foot away from me, every day. I 
watched him sometimes, unable to stop myself — from a distance, though, in the cafeteria or parking lot. I 
watched as his golden eyes grew perceptibly darker day by day. But in class I gave no more notice that 
he existed than he showed toward me. I was miserable. And the dreams continued. 

Despite my outright lies, the tenor of my e-mails alerted Renee to my depression, and she called a few 
times, worried. I tried to convince her it was just the weather that had me down. 

Mike, at least, was pleased by the obvious coolness between me and my lab partner. I could see he'd 
been worried that Edward's daring rescue might have impressed me, and he was relieved that it seemed 
to have the opposite effect. He grew more confident, sitting on the edge of my table to talk before 
Biology class started, ignoring Edward as completely as he ignored us. 

The snow washed away for good after that one dangerously icy day. Mike was disappointed he'd never 
gotten to stage his snowball fight, but pleased that the beach trip would soon be possible. The rain 
continued heavily, though, and the weeks passed. 

Jessica made me aware of another event looming on the horizon — she called the first Tuesday of March 
to ask my permission to invite Mike to the girls' choice spring dance in two weeks. 

"Are you sure you don't mind. . . you weren't planning to ask him?" she persisted when I told her I didn't 
mind in the least. 

"No, Jess, I'm not going," I assured her. Dancing was glaringly outside my range of abilities. 

"It will be really fun." Her attempt to convince me was halfhearted. I suspected that Jessica enjoyed my 
inexplicable popularity more than my actual company. 

"You have fun with Mike," I encouraged. 

The next day, I was surprised that Jessica wasn't her usual gushing self in Trig and Spanish. She was 



silent as she walked by my side between classes, and I was afraid to ask her why. If Mike had turned her 
down, I was the last person she would want to tell. 

My fears were strengthened during lunch when Jessica sat as far from Mike as possible, chatting 
animatedly with Eric. Mike was unusually quiet. 

Mike was still quiet as he walked me to class, the uncomfortable look on his face a bad sign. But he 
didn't broach the subject until I was in my seat and he was perched on my desk. As always, I was 
electrically aware of Edward sitting close enough to touch, as distant as if he were merely an invention of 
my imagination. 

"So," Mike said, looking at the floor, "Jessica asked me to the spring dance." 

"That's great." I made my voice bright and enthusiastic. "You'll have a lot of fun with Jessica." 

"Well. . . " He floundered as he examined my smile, clearly not happy with my response. "I told her I had 
to think about it." 

"Why would you do that?" I let disapproval color my tone, though I was relieved he hadn't given her an 
absolute no. 

His face was bright red as he looked down again. Pity shook my resolve. 
"I was wondering if. . . well, if you might be planning to ask me." 

I paused for a moment, hating the wave of guilt that swept through me. But I saw, from the comer of my 
eye, Edward's head tilt reflexively in my direction. 

"Mike, I think you should tell her yes," I said. 

"Did you already ask someone?" Did Edward notice how Mike's eyes flickered in his direction? 
"No," I assured him. "I'm not going to the dance at all." 
"Why not?" Mike demanded. 

I didn't want to get into the safety hazards that dancing presented, so I quickly made new plans. 

"I'm going to Seattle that Saturday," I explained. I needed to get out of town anyway — it was suddenly 
the perfect time to go. 

"Can't you go some other weekend?" 

"Sorry, no," I said. "So you shouldn't make Jess wait any longer — it's rude." 

"Yeah, you're right," he mumbled, and turned, dejected, to walk back to his seat. I closed my eyes and 
pressed my fingers to my temples, trying to push the guilt and sympathy out of my head. Mr. Banner 
began talking. I sighed and opened my eyes. 

And Edward was staring at me curiously, that same, familiar edge of frustration even more distinct now in 
his black eyes. 

I stared back, surprised, expecting him to look quickly away. But instead he continued to gaze with 
probing intensity into my eyes. There was no question of me looking away. My hands started to shake. 



"Mr. Cullen?" the teacher called, seeking the answer to a question that I hadn't heard. 

"The Krebs Cycle," Edward answered, seeming reluctant as he turned to look at Mr. Banner. 

I looked down at my book as soon as his eyes released me, trying to find my place. Cowardly as ever, I 
shifted my hair over my right shoulder to hide my face. I couldn't believe the rush of emotion pulsing 
through me — just because he'd happened to look at me for the first time in a half-dozen weeks. I 
couldn't allow him to have this level of influence over me. It was pathetic. More than pathetic, it was 
unhealthy. 

I tried very hard not to be aware of him for the rest of the hour, and, since that was impossible, at least 
not to let him know that I was aware of him. When the bell rang at last, I turned my back to him to gather 
my things, expecting him to leave immediately as usual. 

"Bella?" His voice shouldn't have been so familiar to me, as if I'd known the sound of it all my life rather 
than for just a few short weeks. 

I turned slowly, unwillingly. I didn't want to feel what I knew I would feel when I looked at his 
too-perfect face. My expression was wary when I finally turned to him; his expression was unreadable. 
He didn't say anything. 

"What? Are you speaking to me again?" I finally asked, an unintentional note of petulance in my voice. 
His hps twitched, fighting a smile. "No, not really," he admitted. 

I closed my eyes and inhaled slowly through my nose, aware that I was gritting my teeth. He waited. 

"Then what do you want, Edward?" I asked, keeping my eyes closed; it was easier to talk to him 
coherentiy that way. 

"I'm sorry." He sounded sincere. "I'm being very rude, I know. But it's better this way, really." 

I opened my eyes. His face was very serious. 

"I don't know what you mean," I said, my voice guarded. 

"It's better if we're not friends," he explained. "Trust me." 

My eyes narrowed. I'd heard that before. 

"It's too bad you didn't figure that out earlier," I hissed through my teeth. "You could have saved yourself 
all this regret." 

"Regret?" The word, and my tone, obviously caught him off guard. "Regret for what?" 
"For not just letting that stupid van squish me." 
He was astonished. He stared at me in disbelief. 

When he finally spoke, he almost sounded mad. "You think I regret saving your life?" 

"I know you do," I snapped. 

"You don't know anything." He was definitely mad. 

I turned my head sharply away from him, clenching my jaw against all the wild accusations I wanted to 



hurl at him. I gathered my books together, then stood and walked to the door. I meant to sweep 
dramatically out of the room, but of course I caught the toe of my boot on the door jamb and dropped 
my books. I stood there for a moment, thinking about leaving them. Then I sighed and bent to pick them 
up. He was there; he'd already stacked them into a pile. He handed them to me, his face hard. 

"Thank you," I said icily. 

His eyes narrowed. 

"You're welcome," he retorted. 

I straightened up swiftly, turned away from him again, and stalked off to Gym without looking back. 

Gym was brutal. We'd moved on to basketball. My team never passed me the ball, so that was good, 
but I fell down a lot. Sometimes I took people with me. Today I was worse than usual because my head 
was so filled with Edward. I tried to concentrate on my feet, but he kept creeping back into my thoughts 
just when I really needed my balance. 

It was a relief, as always, to leave. I almost ran to the truck; there were just so many people I wanted to 
avoid. The truck had suffered only minimal damage in the accident. I'd had to replace the taillights, and if 
I'd had a real paint job, I would have touched that up. Tyler's parents had to sell their van for parts. 

I almost had a stroke when I rounded the comer and saw a tall, dark figure leaning against the side of my 
truck. Then I realized it was just Eric. I started walking again. 

"Hey, Eric," I called. 

"Hi, Bella." 

"What's up?" I said as I was unlocking the door. I wasn't paying attention to the uncomfortable edge in 
his voice, so his next words took me by surprise. 

"Uh, I was just wondering. . . if you would go to the spring dance with me?" His voice broke on the last 
word. 

"I thought it was girls' choice," I said, too startled to be diplomatic. 
"Well, yeah," he admitted, shamefaced. 

I recovered my composure and tried to make my smile warm. "Thank you for asking me, but I'm going to 
be in Seattle that day." 

"Oh," he said. "Well, maybe next time." 

"Sure," I agreed, and then bit my hp. I wouldn't want him to take that too literally. 
He slouched off, back toward the school. I heard a low chuckle. 

Edward was walking past the front of my truck, looking straight forward, his hps pressed together. I 
yanked the door open and jumped inside, slamming it loudly behind me. I revved the engine deafeningly 
and reversed out into the aisle. Edward was in his car already, two spaces down, sliding out smoothly in 
front of me, cutting me off. He stopped there — to wait for his family; I could see the four of them 
walking this way, but still by the cafeteria. I considered taking out the rear of his shiny Volvo, but there 
were too many witnesses. I looked in my rearview mirror. A line was beginning to form. Directly behind 
me, Tyler Crowley was in his recently acquired used Sentra, waving. I was too aggravated to 



acknowledge him. 

While I was sitting there, looking everywhere but at the car in front of me, I heard a knock on my 
passenger side window. I looked over; it was Tyler. I glanced back in my rearview mirror, confused. His 
car was still running, the door left open. I leaned across the cab to crank the window down. It was stiff. I 
got it halfway down, then gave up. 

"I'm sorry, Tyler, I'm stuck behind Cullen." I was annoyed — obviously the holdup wasn't my fault. 
"Oh, I know — I just wanted to ask you something while we're trapped here." He grinned. 
This could not be happening. 
"Will you ask me to the spring dance?" he continued. 

"I'm not going to be in town, Tyler." My voice sounded a little sharp. I had to remember it wasn't his fault 
that Mike and Eric had already used up my quota of patience for the day. 

"Yeah, Mike said that," he admitted. 

"Then why—" 

He shrugged. "I was hoping you were just letting him down easy." 
Okay, it was completely his fault. 

"Sorry, Tyler," I said, working to hide my irritation. "I really am going out of town." 
"That's cool. We still have prom." 

And before I could respond, he was walking back to his car. I could feel the shock on my face. I looked 
forward to see Alice, Rosalie, Emmett, and Jasper all sliding into the Volvo. In his rearview mirror, 
Edward's eyes were on me. He was unquestionably shaking with laughter, as if he'd heard every word 
Tyler had said. My foot itched toward the gas pedal. . . one little bump wouldn't hurt any of them, just that 
glossy silver paint job. I revved the engine. 

But they were all in, and Edward was speeding away. I drove home slowly, carefully, muttering to myself 
the whole way. 

When I got home, I decided to make chicken enchiladas for dinner. It was a long process, and it would 
keep me busy. While I was simmering the onions and chilies, the phone rang. I was almost afraid to 
answer it, but it might be Charlie or my mom. 

It was Jessica, and she was jubilant; Mike had caught her after school to accept her invitation. I 
celebrated with her briefly while I stirred. She had to go, she wanted to call Angela and Lauren to tell 
them. I suggested — with casual innocence — that maybe Angela, the shy girl who had Biology with me, 
could ask Eric. And Lauren, a standoffish girl who had always ignored me at the lunch table, could ask 
Tyler; I'd heard he was still available. Jess thought that was a great idea. Now that she was sure of Mike, 
she actually sounded sincere when she said she wished I would go to the dance. I gave her my Seattle 
excuse. 

After I hung up, I tried to concentrate on dinner — dicing the chicken especially; I didn't want to take 
another trip to the emergency room. But my head was spinning, trying to analyze every word Edward 
had spoken today. What did he mean, it was better if we weren't friends? 



My stomach twisted as I realized what he must have meant. He must see how absorbed I was by him; he 
must not want to lead me on. . . so we couldn't even be friends. . . because he wasn't interested in me at 
all. 

Of course he wasn't interested in me, I thought angrily, my eyes stinging — a delayed reaction to the 
onions. I wasn't interesting. And he was. Interesting. . . and brilliant. . . and mysterious. . . and perfect. . . 
and beautiful. . . and possibly able to lift full-sized vans with one hand. 

Well, that was fine. I could leave him alone. I would leave him alone. I would get through my 
self-imposed sentence here in purgatory, and then hopefully some school in the Southwest, or possibly 
Hawaii, would offer me a scholarship. I focused my thoughts on sunny beaches and palm trees as I 
finished the enchiladas and put them in the oven. 

Charlie seemed suspicious when he came home and smelled the green peppers. I couldn't blame him — 
the closest edible Mexican food was probably in southern California. But he was a cop, even if just a 
small-town cop, so he was brave enough to take the first bite. He seemed to like it. It was fun to watch 
as he slowly began trusting me in the kitchen. 

"Dad?" I asked when he was almost done. 

"Yeah, Bella?" 

"Urn, I just wanted to let you know that I'm going to Seattle for the day a week from Saturday. . . if that's 
okay?" I didn't want to ask permission — it set a bad precedent — but I felt rude, so I tacked it on at 
the end. 

"Why?" He sounded surprised, as if he were unable to imagine something that Forks couldn't offer. 

"Well, I wanted to get few books — the library here is pretty limited — and maybe look at some 
clothes." I had more money than I was used to having, since, thanks to Charlie, I hadn't had to pay for a 
car. Not that the truck didn't cost me quite a bit in the gas department. 

"That truck probably doesn't get very good gas mileage," he said, echoing my thoughts. 

"I know, I'll stop in Montesano and Olympia — and Tacoma if I have to." 

"Are you going all by yourself?" he asked, and I couldn't tell if he was suspicious I had a secret boyfriend 
or just worried about car trouble. 

"Yes." 

"Seattle is a big city — you could get lost," he fretted. 

"Dad, Phoenix is five times the size of Seattle — and I can read a map, don't worry about it." 
"Do you want me to come with you?" 
I tried to be crafty as I hid my horror. 

"That's all right, Dad, I'll probably just be in dressing rooms all day — very boring." 

"Oh, okay." The thought of sitting in women's clothing stores for any period of time immediately put him 
off. 

"Thanks." I smiled at him. 



"Will you be back in time for the dance?" 

Grrr. Only in a town this small would a. father know when the high school dances were. 

"No — I don't dance, Dad." He, of all people, should understand that — I didn't get my balance 
problems from my mother. 

He did understand. "Oh, that's right," he realized. 

The next morning, when I pulled into the parking lot, I deliberately parked as far as possible from the 
silver Volvo. I didn't want to put myself in the path of too much temptation and end up owing him a new 
car. Getting out of the cab, I fumbled with my key and it fell into a puddle at my feet. As I bent to get it, a 
white hand flashed out and grabbed it before I could. I jerked upright. Edward Cullen was right next to 
me, leaning casually against my truck. 

"How do you do that?" I asked in amazed irritation. 

"Do what?" He held my key out as he spoke. As I reached for it, he dropped it into my palm. 
"Appear out of thin air." 

"Bella, it's not my fault if you are exceptionally unobservant." His voice was quiet as usual — velvet, 
muted. 

I scowled at his perfect face. His eyes were light again today, a deep, golden honey color. Then I had to 
look down, to reassemble my now-tangled thoughts. 

"Why the traffic jam last night?" I demanded, still looking away. "I thought you were supposed to be 
pretending I don't exist, not irritating me to death." 

"That was for Tyler's sake, not mine. I had to give him his chance." He snickered. 

"You. . ." I gasped. I couldn't think of a bad enough word. It felt like the heat of my anger should 
physically bum him, but he only seemed more amused. 

"And I'm not pretending you don't exist," he continued. 

"So you are trying to irritate me to death? Since Tyler's van didn't do the job?" 

Anger flashed in his tawny eyes. His hps pressed into a hard line, all signs of humor gone. 

"Bella, you are utterly absurd," he said, his low voice cold. 

My palms tingled — I wanted so badly to hit something. I was surprised at myself. I was usually a 
nonviolent person. I turned my back and started to walk away. 

"Wait," he called. I kept walking, sloshing angrily through the rain. But he was next to me, easily keeping 
pace. 

"I'm sorry, that was rude," he said as we walked. I ignored him. "I'm not saying it isn't true," he continued, 
"but it was rude to say it, anyway." 

"Why won't you leave me alone?" I grumbled. 

"I wanted to ask you something, but you sidetracked me," he chuckled. He seemed to have recovered 



his good humor. 

"Do you have a multiple personality disorder?" I asked severely. 
"You're doing it again." 

I sighed. "Fine then. What do you want to ask?" 

"I was wondering if, a week from Saturday — you know, the day of the spring dance — " 

"Are you trying to be funny ?" I interrupted him, wheeling toward him. My face got drenched as I looked 
up at his expression. 

His eyes were wickedly amused. "Will you please allow me to finish?" 

I bit my hp and clasped my hands together, interlocking my fingers, so I couldn't do anything rash. 
"I heard you say you were going to Seattle that day, and I was wondering if you wanted a ride." 
That was unexpected. 

"What?" I wasn't sure what he was getting at. 
"Do you want a ride to Seattle?" 
"With who?" I asked, mystified. 

"Myself, obviously." He enunciated every syllable, as if he were talking to someone mentally 
handicapped. 

I was still stunned. " Why?' 

"Well, I was planning to go to Seattle in the next few weeks, and, to be honest, I'm not sure if your truck 
can make it." 

"My truck works just fine, thank you very much for your concern." I started to walk again, but I was too 
surprised to maintain the same level of anger. 

"But can your truck make it there on one tank of gas?" He matched my pace again. 
"I don't see how that is any of your business." Stupid, shiny Volvo owner. 
"The wasting of finite resources is everyone's business." 

"Honestly, Edward." I felt a thrill go through me as I said his name, and I hated it. "I can't keep up with 
you. I thought you didn't want to be my friend." 

"I said it would be better if we weren't friends, not that I didn't want to be." 

"Oh, thanks, now that's all cleared up." Heavy sarcasm. I realized I had stopped walking again. We 
were under the shelter of the cafeteria roof now, so I could more easily look at his face. Which certainly 
didn't help my clarity of thought. 

"It would be more. . . prudent for you not to be my friend," he explained. "But I'm tired of trying to stay 
away from you, Bella." 



His eyes were gloriously intense as he uttered that last sentence, his voice smoldering. I couldn't 
remember how to breathe. 

"Will you go with me to Seattle?" he asked, still intense. 

I couldn't speak yet, so I just nodded. 

He smiled briefly, and then his face became serious. 

"You really should stay away from me," he warned. "I'll see you in class." 

He turned abruptly and walked back the way we'd come. 

5. BLOOD TYPE 

I made my way to English in a daze. I didn't even realize when I first walked in that class had already 
started. 

"Thank you for joining us, Miss Swan," Mr. Mason said in a disparaging tone. 
I flushed and hurried to my seat. 

It wasn't till class ended that I realized Mike wasn't sitting in his usual seat next to me. I felt a twinge of 
guilt. But he and Eric both met me at the door as usual, so I figured I wasn't totally unforgiven. Mike 
seemed to become more himself as we walked, gaining enthusiasm as he talked about the weather report 
for this weekend. The rain was supposed to take a minor break, and so maybe his beach trip would be 
possible. I tried to sound eager, to make up for disappointing him yesterday. It was hard; rain or no rain, 
it would still only be in the high forties, if we were lucky. 

The rest of the morning passed in a blur. It was difficult to believe that I hadn't just imagined what 
Edward had said, and the way his eyes had looked. Maybe it was just a very convincing dream that I'd 
confused with reality. That seemed more probable than that I really appealed to him on any level. 

So I was impatient and frightened as Jessica and I entered the cafeteria. I wanted to see his face, to see if 
he'd gone back to the cold, indifferent person I'd known for the last several weeks. Or if, by some 
miracle, I'd really heard what I thought I'd heard this morning. Jessica babbled on and on about her 
dance plans — Lauren and Angela had asked the other boys and they were all going together — 
completely unaware of my inattention. 

Disappointment flooded through me as my eyes unerringly focused on his table. The other four were 
there, but he was absent. Had he gone home? I followed the still-babbling Jessica through the line, 
crushed. I'd lost my appetite — I bought nothing but a bottle of lemonade. I just wanted to go sit down 
and sulk. 

"Edward Cullen is staring at you again," Jessica said, finally breaking through my abstraction with his 
name. "I wonder why he's sitting alone today." 

My head snapped up. I followed her gaze to see Edward, smiling crookedly, staring at me from an empty 
table across the cafeteria from where he usually sat. Once he'd caught my eye, he raised one hand and 
motioned with his index finger for me to join him. As I stared in disbelief, he winked. 



"Does he mean youT Jessica asked with insulting astonishment in her voice. 

"Maybe he needs help with his Biology homework," I muttered for her benefit. "Urn, I'd better go see 
what he wants." 

I could feel her staring after me as I walked away. 

When I reached his table, I stood behind the chair across from him, unsure. 
"Why don't you sit with me today?" he asked, smiling. 

I sat down automatically, watching him with caution. He was still smiling. It was hard to believe that 
someone so beautiful could be real. I was afraid that he might disappear in a sudden puff of smoke, and I 
would wake up. 

He seemed to be waiting for me to say something. 
"This is different," I finally managed. 

"Well. . ." He paused, and then the rest of the words followed in a rush. "I decided as long as I was going 
to hell, I might as well do it thoroughly." 

I waited for him to say something that made sense. The seconds ticked by. 
"You know I don't have any idea what you mean," I eventually pointed out. 

"I know." He smiled again, and then he changed the subject. "I think your friends are angry with me for 
stealing you." 

"They'll survive." I could feel their stares boring into my back. 

"I may not give you back, though," he said with a wicked glint in his eyes. 

I gulped. 

He laughed. "You look worried." 

"No," I said, but, ridiculously, my voice broke. "Surprised, actually. . . what brought all this on?" 

"I told you — I got tired of trying to stay away from you. So I'm giving up." He was still smiling, but his 
ocher eyes were serious. 

"Giving up?" I repeated in confusion. 

"Yes — giving up trying to be good. I'm just going to do what I want now, and let the chips fall where 
they may." His smile faded as he explained, and a hard edge crept into his voice. 

"You lost me again." 

The breathtaking crooked smile reappeared. 

"I always say too much when I'm talking to you — that's one of the problems." 
"Don't worry — I don't understand any of it," I said wryly. 
"I'm counting on that." 



"So, in plain English, are we friends now?" 
"Friends. . . " he mused, dubious. 
"Or not," I muttered. 

He grinned. "Well, we can try, I suppose. But I'm warning you now that I'm not a good friend for you." 
Behind his smile, the warning was real. 

"You say that a lot," I noted, trying to ignore the sudden trembling in my stomach and keep my voice 
even. 

"Yes, because you're not listening to me. I'm still waiting for you to believe it. If you're smart, you'll avoid 
me." 

"I think you've made your opinion on the subject of my intellect clear, too." My eyes narrowed. 
He smiled apologetically. 

"So, as long as I'm being. . . not smart, we'll try to be friends?" I struggled to sum up the confusing 
exchange. 

"That sounds about right." 

I looked down at my hands wrapped around the lemonade bottle, not sure what to do now. 
"What are you thinking?" he asked curiously. 

I looked up into his deep gold eyes, became befuddled, and, as usual, blurted out the truth. 
"I'm trying to figure out what you are." 

His jaw tightened, but he kept his smile in place with some effort. 
"Are you having any luck with that?" he asked in an offhand tone. 
"Not too much," I admitted. 
He chuckled. "What are your theories?" 

I blushed. I had been vacillating during the last month between Bruce Wayne and Peter Parker. There 
was no way I was going to own up to that. 

"Won't you tell me?" he asked, tilting his head to one side with a shockingly tempting smile. 

I shook my head. "Too embarrassing." 

"That's really frustrating, you know," he complained. 

"No," I disagreed quickly, my eyes narrowing, "I can't imagine why that would be frustrating at all — 
just because someone refuses to tell you what they're thinking, even if all the while they're making cryptic 
little remarks specifically designed to keep you up at night wondering what they could possibly mean. . . 
now, why would that be frustrating?" 

He grimaced. 



"Or better," I continued, the pent-up annoyance flowing freely now, "say that person also did a wide 
range of bizarre things — from saving your life under impossible circumstances one day to treating you 
like a pariah the next, and he never explained any of that, either, even after he promised. That, also, 
would be very non-frustrating." 

"You've got a bit of a temper, don't you?" 

"I don't like double standards." 

We stared at each other, unsmiling. 

He glanced over my shoulder, and then, unexpectedly, he snickered. 
"What?" 

"Your boyfriend seems to think I'm being unpleasant to you — he's debating whether or not to come 
break up our fight." He snickered again. 

"I don't know who you're talking about," I said frostily. "But I'm sure you're wrong, anyway." 
"I'm not. I told you, most people are easy to read." 
"Except me, of course." 

"Yes. Except for you." His mood shifted suddenly; his eyes turned brooding. "I wonder why that is." 

I had to look away from the intensity of his stare. I concentrated on unscrewing the lid of my lemonade. I 
took a swig, staring at the table without seeing it. 

"Aren't you hungry?" he asked, distracted. 

"No." I didn't feel like mentioning that my stomach was already full — of butterflies. "You?" I looked at 
the empty table in front of him. 

"No, I'm not hungry." I didn't understand his expression — it looked like he was enjoying some private 
joke. 

"Can you do me a favor?" I asked after a second of hesitation. 
He was suddenly wary. "That depends on what you want." 
"It's not much," I assured him. 
He waited, guarded but curious. 

"I just wondered. . . if you could warn me beforehand the next time you decide to ignore me for my own 
good. Just so I'm prepared." I looked at the lemonade bottle as I spoke, tracing the circle of the opening 
with my pinkie finger. 

"That sounds fair." He was pressing his hps together to keep from laughing when I looked up. 
"Thanks." 

"Then can I have one answer in return?" he demanded. 
"One." 



"Tell me one theory." 
Whoops. "Not that one." 

"You didn't qualify, you just promised one answer," he reminded me. 
"And you've broken promises yourself," I reminded him back. 
"Just one theory — I won't laugh." 
"Yes, you will." I was positive about that. 

He looked down, and then glanced up at me through his long black lashes, his ocher eyes scorching. 

"Please?" he breathed, leaning toward me. 

I blinked, my mind going blank. Holy crow, how did he do that? 

"Er, what?" I asked, dazed. 

"Please tell me just one little theory." His eyes still smoldered at me. 

"Um, well, bitten by a radioactive spider?" Was he a hypnotist, too? Or was I just a hopeless pushover? 

"That's not very creative," he scoffed. 

"I'm sorry, that's all I've got," I said, miffed. 

"You're not even close," he teased. 

"No spiders?" 

"Nope." 

"And no radioactivity?" 
"None." 

"Dang," I sighed. 

"Kryptonite doesn't bother me, either," he chuckled. 

"You're not supposed to laugh, remember?" 

He struggled to compose his face. 

"I'll figure it out eventually," I warned him. 

"I wish you wouldn't try." He was serious again. 

"Because... ?" 

"What if I'm not a superhero? What if I'm the bad guy?" He smiled playfully, but his eyes were 
impenetrable. 

"Oh," I said, as several things he'd hinted fell suddenly into place. "I see." 



"Do you?" His face was abruptly severe, as if he were afraid that he'd accidentally said too much. 

"You're dangerous?" I guessed, my pulse quickening as I intuitively realized the truth of my own words. 
He was dangerous. He'd been trying to tell me that all along. 

He just looked at me, eyes full of some emotion I couldn't comprehend. 

"But not bad," I whispered, shaking my head. "No, I don't believe that you're bad." 

"You're wrong." His voice was almost inaudible. He looked down, stealing my bottle lid and then 
spinning it on its side between his fingers. I stared at him, wondering why I didn't feel afraid. He meant 
what he was saying — that was obvious. But I just felt anxious, on edge. . . and, more than anything else, 
fascinated. The same way I always felt when I was near him. 

The silence lasted until I noticed that the cafeteria was almost empty. 

I jumped to my feet. "We're going to be late." 

"I'm not going to class today," he said, twirling the lid so fast it was just a blur. 
"Why not?" 

"It's healthy to ditch class now and then." He smiled up at me, but his eyes were still troubled. 
"Well, I'm going," I told him. I was far too big a coward to risk getting caught. 
He turned his attention back to his makeshift top. "I'll see you later, then." 

I hesitated, torn, but then the first bell sent me hurrying out the door — with a last glance corifirrning that 
he hadn't moved a centimeter. 

As I half-ran to class, my head was spinning faster than the bottle cap. So few questions had been 
answered in comparison to how many new questions had been raised. At least the rain had stopped. 

I was lucky; Mr. Banner wasn't in the room yet when I arrived. I settled quickly into my seat, aware that 
both Mike and Angela were staring at me. Mike looked resentful; Angela looked surprised, and slightly 
awed. 

Mr. Banner came in the room then, calling the class to order. He was juggling a few small cardboard 
boxes in his arms. He put them down on Mike's table, telling him to start passing them around the class. 

"Okay, guys, I want you all to take one piece from each box," he said as he produced a pair of rubber 
gloves from the pocket of his lab jacket and pulled them on. The sharp sound as the gloves snapped into 
place against his wrists seemed ominous to me. "The first should be an indicator card," he went on, 
grabbing a white card with four squares marked on it and displaying it. "The second is a four-pronged 
applicator — " he held up something that looked like a nearly toothless hair pick " — and the third is a 
sterile micro-lancet." He held up a small piece of blue plastic and split it open. The barb was invisible 
from this distance, but my stomach flipped. 

"I'll be coming around with a dropper of water to prepare your cards, so please don't start until I get to 
you." He began at Mike's table again, carefully putting one drop of water in each of the four squares. 
"Then I want you to carefully prick your finger with the lancet. . . " He grabbed Mike's hand and jabbed 
the spike into the tip of Mike's middle finger. Oh no. Clammy moisture broke out across my forehead. 

"Put a small drop of blood on each of the prongs." He demonstrated, squeezing Mike's finger till the 



blood flowed. I swallowed convulsively, my stomach heaving. 

"And then apply it to the card," he finished, holding up the dripping red card for us to see. I closed my 
eyes, trying to hear through the ringing in my ears. 

"The Red Cross is having a blood drive in Port Angeles next weekend, so I thought you should all know 
your blood type." He sounded proud of himself. "Those of you who aren't eighteen yet will need a 
parent's permission — I have slips at my desk." 

He continued through the room with his water drops. I put my cheek against the cool black tabletop and 
tried to hold on to my consciousness. All around me I could hear squeals, complaints, and giggles as my 
classmates skewered their fingers. I breathed slowly in and out through my mouth. 

"Bella, are you all right?" Mr. Banner asked. His voice was close to my head, and it sounded alarmed. 

"I already know my blood type, Mr. Banner," I said in a weak voice. I was afraid to raise my head. 

"Are you feeling faint?" 

"Yes, sir," I muttered, internally kicking myself for not ditching when I had the chance. 

"Can someone take Bella to the nurse, please?" he called. 

I didn't have to look up to know that it would be Mike who volunteered. 

"Can you walk?" Mr. Banner asked. 

"Yes," I whispered. Just let me get out of here, I thought. I'll crawl. 

Mike seemed eager as he put his arm around my waist and pulled my arm over his shoulder. I leaned 
against him heavily on the way out of the classroom. 

Mike towed me slowly across campus. When we were around the edge of the cafeteria, out of sight of 
building four in case Mr. Banner was watching, I stopped. 

"Just let me sit for a minute, please?" I begged. 

He helped me sit on the edge of the walk. 

"And whatever you do, keep your hand in your pocket," I warned. I was still so dizzy. I slumped over on 
my side, putting my cheek against the freezing, damp cement of the sidewalk, closing my eyes. That 
seemed to help a little. 

"Wow, you're green, Bella," Mike said nervously. 
"Bella?" a different voice called from the distance. 
No! Please let me be imagining that horribly familiar voice. 

"What's wrong — is she hurt?" His voice was closer now, and he sounded upset. I wasn't imagining it. I 
squeezed my eyes shut, hoping to die. Or, at the very least, not to throw up. 

Mike seemed stressed. "I think she's fainted. I don't know what happened, she didn't even stick her 
finger." 

"Bella." Edward's voice was right beside me, relieved now. "Can you hear me?" 



"No," I groaned. "Go away." 
He chuckled. 

"I was taking her to the nurse," Mike explained in a defensive tone, "but she wouldn't go any farther." 
"I'll take her," Edward said. I could hear the smile still in his voice. "You can go back to class." 
"No," Mike protested. "I'm supposed to do it." 

Suddenly the sidewalk disappeared from beneath me. My eyes flew open in shock. Edward had 
scooped me up in his arms, as easily as if I weighed ten pounds instead of a hundred and ten. 

"Put me down!" Please, please let me not vomit on him. He was walking before I was finished talking. 

"Hey!" Mike called, already ten paces behind us. 

Edward ignored him. "You look awful," he told me, grinning. 

"Put me back on the sidewalk," I moaned. The rocking movement of his walk was not helping. He held 
me away from his body, gingerly, supporting all my weight with just his arms — it didn't seem to bother 
him 

"So you faint at the sight of blood?" he asked. This seemed to entertain him. 

I didn't answer. I closed my eyes again and fought the nausea with all my strength, clamping my hps 
together. 

"And not even your own blood," he continued, enjoying himself. 

I don't know how he opened the door while carrying me, but it was suddenly warm, so I knew we were 
inside. 

"Oh my," I heard a female voice gasp. 
"She fainted in Biology," Edward explained. 

I opened my eyes. I was in the office, and Edward was striding past the front counter toward the nurse's 
door. Ms. Cope, the redheaded front office receptionist, ran ahead of him to hold it open. The 
grandmotherly nurse looked up from a novel, astonished, as Edward swung me into the room and placed 
me gentiy on the crackly paper that covered the brown vinyl mattress on the one cot. Then he moved to 
stand against the wall as far across the narrow room as possible. His eyes were bright, excited. 

"She's just a little faint," he reassured the startled nurse. "They're blood typing in Biology." 

The nurse nodded sagely. "There's always one." 

He muffled a snicker. 

"Just he down for a minute, honey; it'll pass." 

"I know," I sighed. The nausea was already fading. 

"Does this happen a lot?" she asked. 

"Sometimes," I admitted. Edward coughed to hide another laugh. 



"You can go back to class now," she told him. 

"I'm supposed to stay with her." He said this with such assured authority that — even though she pursed 
her hps — the nurse didn't argue it further. 

"El go get you some ice for your forehead, dear," she said to me, and then bustled out of the room. 
"You were right," I moaned, letting my eyes close. 
"I usually am — but about what in particular this time?" 
"Ditching is healthy." I practiced breathing evenly. 

"You scared me for a minute there," he admitted after a pause. His tone made it sound like he was 
confessing a humiliating weakness. "I thought Newton was dragging your dead body off to bury it in the 
woods." 

"Ha ha." I still had my eyes closed, but I was feeling more normal every minute. 

"Honestly — I've seen corpses with better color. I was concerned that I might have to avenge your 
murder." 

"Poor Mike. I'll bet he's mad." 

"He absolutely loathes me," Edward said cheerfully. 

"You can't know that," I argued, but then I wondered suddenly if he could. 

"I saw his face — I could tell." 

"How did you see me? I thought you were ditching." I was almost fine now, though the queasiness would 
probably pass faster if I'd eaten something for lunch. On the other hand, maybe it was lucky my stomach 
was empty. 

"I was in my car, listening to a CD." Such a normal response — it surprised me. 

I heard the door and opened my eyes to see the nurse with a cold compress in her hand. 

"Here you go, dear." She laid it across my forehead. "You're looking better," she added. 

"I think I'm fine," I said, sitting up. Just a little ringing in my ears, no spinning. The mint green walls stayed 
where they should. 

I could see she was about to make me lie back down, but the door opened just then, and Ms. Cope 
stuck her head in. 

"We've got another one," she warned. 

I hopped down to free up the cot for the next invalid. 

I handed the compress back to the nurse. "Here, I don't need this." 

And then Mike staggered through the door, now supporting a sallow-looking Lee Stephens, another boy 
in our Biology class. Edward and I drew back against the wall to give them room. 

"Oh no," Edward muttered. "Go out to the office, Bella." 



I looked up at him, bewildered. 
"Trust me — go." 

I spun and caught the door before it closed, darting out of the infirmary. I could feel Edward right behind 
me. 

"You actually listened to me." He was stunned. 

"I smelled the blood," I said, wrinkling my nose. Lee wasn't sick from watching other people, like me. 
"People can't smell blood," he contradicted. 

"Well, I can — that's what makes me sick. It smells like rust. . . and salt." 
He was staring at me with an unfathomable expression. 
"What?" I asked. 
"It's nothing." 

Mike came through the door then, glancing from me to Edward. The look he gave Edward confirmed 
what Edward had said about loathing. He looked back at me, his eyes glum. 

"You look better," he accused. 

"Just keep your hand in your pocket," I warned him again. 

"It's not bleeding anymore," he muttered. "Are you going back to class?" 

"Are you kidding? I'd just have to turn around and come back." 

"Yeah, I guess. . . So are you going this weekend? To the beach?" While he spoke, he flashed another 
glare toward Edward, who was standing against the cluttered counter, motionless as a sculpture, staring 
off into space. 

I tried to sound as friendly as possible. "Sure, I said I was in." 

"We're meeting at my dad's store, at ten." His eyes flickered to Edward again, wondering if he was giving 
out too much information. His body language made it clear that it wasn't an open invitation. 

"I'll be there," I promised. 

"I'll see you in Gym, then," he said, moving uncertainly toward the door. 

"See you," I replied. He looked at me once more, his round face slightiy pouting, and then as he walked 
slowly through the door, his shoulders slumped. A swell of sympathy washed over me. I pondered seeing 
his disappointed face again. . . in Gym. 

"Gym," I groaned. 

"I can take care of that." I hadn't noticed Edward moving to my side, but he spoke now in my ear. "Go 
sit down and look pale," he muttered. 

That wasn't a challenge; I was always pale, and my recent swoon had left a light sheen of sweat on my 
face. I sat in one of the creaky folding chairs and rested my head against the wall with my eyes closed. 



Fainting spells always exhausted me. 

I heard Edward speaking softly at the counter. 

"Ms. Cope?" 

"Yes?" I hadn't heard her return to her desk. 

"Bella has Gym next hour, and I don't think she feels well enough. Actually, I was thinking I should take 
her home now. Do you think you could excuse her from class?" His voice was like melting honey. I could 
imagine how much more overwhelming his eyes would be. 

"Do you need to be excused, too, Edward?" Ms. Cope fluttered. Why couldn't I do that? 
"No, I have Mrs. Goff, she won't mind." 

"Okay, it's all taken care of. You feel better, Bella," she called to me. I nodded weakly, hamming it up 
just a bit. 

"Can you walk, or do you want me to carry you again?" With his back to the receptionist, his expression 
became sarcastic. 

"Ill walk." 

I stood carefully, and I was still fine. He held the door for me, his smile polite but his eyes mocking. I 
walked out into the cold, fine mist that had just begun to fall. It felt nice — the first time I'd enjoyed the 
constant moisture falling out of the sky — as it washed my face clean of the sticky perspiration. 

"Thanks," I said as he followed me out. "It's almost worth getting sick to miss Gym." 

"Anytime." He was staring straight forward, squinting into the rain. 

"So are you going? This Saturday, I mean?" I was hoping he would, though it seemed unlikely. I couldn't 
picture him loading up to carpool with the rest of the kids from school; he didn't belong in the same 
world. But just hoping that he might gave me the first twinge of enthusiasm I'd felt for the outing. 

"Where are you all going, exactly?" He was still looking ahead, expressionless. 

"Down to La Push, to First Beach." I studied his face, trying to read it. His eyes seemed to narrow 
infirdtesimally. 

He glanced down at me from the comer of his eye, smiling wryly. "I really don't think I was invited." 
I sighed. "I just invited you." 

"Let's you and I not push poor Mike any further this week. We don't want him to snap." His eyes 
danced; he was enjoying the idea more than he should. 

"Mike-schmike." I muttered, preoccupied by the way he'd said "you and I." I liked it more than / should. 

We were near the parking lot now. I veered left, toward my truck. Something caught my jacket, yanking 
me back. 

"Where do you think you're going?" he asked, outraged. He was gripping a fistful of my jacket in one 
hand. 



I was confused. "I'm going home." 

"Didn't you hear me promise to take you safely home? Do you think I'm going to let you drive in your 
condition?" His voice was still indignant. 

"What condition? And what about my truck?" I complained. 

"I'll have Alice drop it off after school." He was towing me toward his car now, pulling me by my jacket. 
It was all I could do to keep from falling backward. He'd probably just drag me along anyway if I did. 

"Let go!" I insisted. He ignored me. I staggered along sideways across the wet sidewalk until we reached 
the Volvo. Then he finally freed me — I stumbled against the passenger door. 

"You are so pushy !" I grumbled. 

"It's open," was all he responded. He got in the driver's side. 

"I am perfectiy capable of driving myself home ! " I stood by the car, fuming. It was raining harder now, 
and I'd never put my hood up, so my hair was dripping down my back. 

He lowered the automatic window and leaned toward me across the seat. "Get in, Bella." 

I didn't answer. I was mentally calculating my chances of reaching the truck before he could catch me. I 
had to admit, they weren't good. 

"I'll just drag you back," he threatened, guessing my plan. 

I tried to maintain what dignity I could as I got into his car. I wasn't very successful — I looked like a 
half-drowned cat and my boots squeaked. 

"This is completely unnecessary," I said stiffly. 

He didn't answer. He fiddled with the controls, turning the heater up and the music down. As he pulled 
out of the parking lot, I was preparing to give him the silent treatment — my face in full pout mode — but 
then I recognized the music playing, and my curiosity got the better of my intentions. 

"Clair de Lune?" I asked, surprised. 

"You know Debussy?" He sounded surprised, too. 

"Not well," I admitted. "My mother plays a lot of classical music around the house — I only know my 
favorites." 

"It's one of my favorites, too." He stared out through the rain, lost in thought. 

I listened to the music, relaxing against the light gray leather seat. It was impossible not to respond to the 
familiar, soothing melody. The rain blurred everything outside the window into gray and green smudges. I 
began to realize we were driving very fast; the car moved so steadily, so evenly, though, I didn't feel the 
speed. Only the town flashing by gave it away. 

"What is your mother like?" he asked me suddenly. 

I glanced over to see him studying me with curious eyes. 

"She looks a lot like me, but she's prettier," I said. He raised his eyebrows. "I have too much Charlie in 



me. She's more outgoing than I am, and braver. She's irresponsible and slightly eccentric, and she's a 
very unpredictable cook. She's my best friend." I stopped. Talking about her was making me depressed. 

"How old are you, Bella?" His voice sounded frustrated for some reason I couldn't imagine. He'd 
stopped the car, and I realized we were at Charlie's house already. The rain was so heavy that I could 
barely see the house at all. It was like the car was submerged under a river. 

"I'm seventeen," I responded, a little confused. 

"You don't seem seventeen." 

His tone was reproachful; it made me laugh. 

"What?" he asked, curious again. 

"My mom always says I was bom thirty-five years old and that I get more middle-aged every year." I 
laughed, and then sighed. "Well, someone has to be the adult." I paused for a second. "You don't seem 
much like a junior in high school yourself," I noted. 

He made a face and changed the subject. 

"So why did your mother marry Phil?" 

I was surprised he would remember the name; I'd mentioned it just once, almost two months ago. It took 
me a moment to answer. 

"My mother. . . she's very young for her age. I think Phil makes her feel even younger. At any rate, she's 
crazy about him." I shook my head. The attraction was a mystery to me. 

"Do you approve?" he asked. 

"Does it matter?" I countered. "I want her to be happy. . . and he is who she wants." 

"That's very generous. . . I wonder," he mused. 

"What?" 

"Would she extend the same courtesy to you, do you think? No matter who your choice was?" He was 
suddenly intent, his eyes searching mine. 

"I-I think so," I stuttered. "But she's the parent, after all. It's a little bit different." 
"No one too scary then," he teased. 

I grinned in response. "What do you mean by scary? Multiple facial piercings and extensive tattoos?" 
"That's one definition, I suppose." 
"What's your definition?" 

But he ignored my question and asked me another. "Do you think that / could be scary?" He raised one 
eyebrow, and the faint trace of a smile lightened his face. 

I thought for a moment, wondering whether the truth or a he would go over better. I decided to go with 
the truth. "Hmmm. . . I think you could be, if you wanted to." 



"Are you frightened of me now?" The smile vanished, and his heavenly face was suddenly serious. 
"No." But I answered too quickly. The smile returned. 

"So, now are you going to tell me about your family?" I asked to distract him. "It's got to be a much more 
interesting story than mine." 

He was instantly cautious. "What do you want to know?" 

"The Cullens adopted you?" I verified. 

"Yes." 

I hesitated for a moment. "What happened to your parents?" 
"They died many years ago." His tone was matter-of-fact. 
"I'm sorry," I mumbled. 

"I don't really remember them that clearly. Carlisle and Esme have been my parents for a long time now." 
"And you love them." It wasn't a question. It was obvious in the way he spoke of them. 
"Yes." He smiled. "I couldn't imagine two better people." 
"You're very lucky." 
"I know I am." 

"And your brother and sister?" 

He glanced at the clock on the dashboard. 

"My brother and sister, and Jasper and Rosalie for that matter, are going to be quite upset if they have to 
stand in the rain waiting for me." 

"Oh, sorry, I guess you have to go." I didn't want to get out of the car. 

"And you probably want your truck back before Chief Swan gets home, so you don't have to tell him 
about the Biology incident." He grinned at me. 

"I'm sure he's already heard. There are no secrets in Forks." I sighed. 

He laughed, and there was an edge to his laughter. 

"Have fun at the beach. . . good weather for sunbathing." He glanced out at the sheeting rain. 

"Won't I see you tomorrow?" 

"No. Emmett and I are starting the weekend early." 

"What are you going to do?" A friend could ask that, right? I hoped the disappointment wasn't too 
apparent in my voice. 

"We're going to be hiking in the Goat Rocks Wilderness, just south of Rainier." 
I remembered Charlie had said the Cullens went camping frequentiy. 



"Oh, well, have fun." I tried to sound enthusiastic. I don't think I fooled him, though. A smile was playing 
around the edges of his hps. 

"Will you do something for me this weekend?" He turned to look me straight in the face, utilizing the full 
power of his burning gold eyes. 

I nodded helplessly. 

"Don't be offended, but you seem to be one of those people who just attract accidents like a magnet. 
So. . . try not to fall into the ocean or get run over or anything, all right?" He smiled crookedly. 

The helplessness had faded as he spoke. I glared at him. 

"I'll see what I can do," I snapped as I jumped out into the rain. I slammed the door behind me with 
excessive force. 

He was still smiling as he drove away. 
6. SCARY STORIES 

As I sat in my room, trying to concentrate on the third act of Macbeth, I was really Ustening for my truck. 
I would have thought, even over the pounding rain, I could have heard the engine's roar. But when I went 
to peek out the curtain — again — it was suddenly there. 

I wasn't looking forward to Friday, and it more than lived up to my non-expectations. Of course there 
were the fainting comments. Jessica especially seemed to get a kick out of that story. Luckily Mike had 
kept his mouth shut, and no one seemed to know about Edward's involvement. She did have a lot of 
questions about lunch, though. 

"So what did Edward Cullen want yesterday?" Jessica asked in Trig. 
"I don't know," I answered truthfully. "He never really got to the point." 
"You looked kind of mad," she fished. 
"Did I?" I kept my expression blank. 

"You know, I've never seen him sit with anyone but his family before. That was weird." 

"Weird," I agreed. She seemed annoyed; she flipped her dark curls impatiently — I guessed she'd been 
hoping to hear something that would make a good story for her to pass on. 


The Newtons' Olympic Outfitters store was just north of town. I'd seen the store, but I'd never stopped 
there — not having much need for any supplies required for being outdoors over an extended period of 
time. In the parking lot I recognized Mike's Suburban and Tyler's Sentra. As I pulled up next to their 
vehicles, I could see the group standing around in front of the Suburban. Eric was there, along with two 
other boys I had class with; I was fairly sure their names were Ben and Conner. Jess was there, flanked 
by Angela and Lauren. Three other girls stood with them, including one I remembered falling over in Gym 
on Friday. That one gave me a dirty look as I got out of the truck, and whispered something to Lauren. 
Lauren shook out her cornsilk hair and eyed me scornfully. 

So it was going to be one of those days. 

At least Mike was happy to see me. 

"You came!" he called, delighted. "And I said it would be sunny today, didn't I?" 



"I told you I was coming," I reminded him. 



"We're just waiting for Lee and Samantha. . . unless you invited someone," Mike added. 

"Nope," I lied lightly, hoping I wouldn't get caught in the he. But also wishing that a miracle would occur, 
and Edward would appear. 

Mike looked satisfied. 

"Will you ride in my car? It's that or Lee's mom's minivan." 
"Sure." 

He smiled blissfully. It was so easy to make Mike happy. 

"You can have shotgun," he promised. I hid my chagrin. It wasn't as simple to make Mike and Jessica 
happy at the same time. I could see Jessica glowering at us now. 

The numbers worked out in my favor, though. Lee brought two extra people, and suddenly every seat 
was necessary. I managed to wedge Jess in between Mike and me in the front seat of the Suburban. 
Mike could have been more graceful about it, but at least Jess seemed appeased. 

It was only fifteen miles to La Push from Forks, with gorgeous, dense green forests edging the road most 
of the way and the wide Quillayute River snaking beneath it twice. I was glad I had the window seat. 
We'd rolled the windows down — the Suburban was a bit claustrophobic with nine people in it — and I 
tried to absorb as much sunlight as possible. 

I'd been to the beaches around La Push many times during my Forks summers with Charlie, so the 
mile-long crescent of First Beach was familiar to me. It was still breathtaking. The water was dark gray, 
even in the sunlight, white-capped and heaving to the gray, rocky shore. Islands rose out of the steel 
harbor waters with sheer cliff sides, reaching to uneven summits, and crowned with austere, soaring firs. 
The beach had only a thin border of actual sand at the water's edge, after which it grew into millions of 
large, smooth stones that looked uniformly gray from a distance, but close up were every shade a stone 
could be: terra-cotta, sea green, lavender, blue gray, dull gold. The tide line was strewn with huge 
driftwood trees, bleached bone white in the salt waves, some piled together against the edge of the forest 
fringe, some lying solitary, just out of reach of the waves. 

There was a brisk wind coming off the waves, cool and briny. Pelicans floated on the swells while 
seagulls and a lone eagle wheeled above them. The clouds still circled the sky, threatening to invade at 
any moment, but for now the sun shone bravely in its halo of blue sky. 

We picked our way down to the beach, Mike leading the way to a ring of driftwood logs that had 
obviously been used for parties like ours before. There was a fire circle already in place, filled with black 
ashes. Eric and the boy I thought was named Ben gathered broken branches of driftwood from the drier 
piles against the forest edge, and soon had a teepee- shaped construction built atop the old cinders. 

"Have you ever seen a driftwood fire?" Mike asked me. I was sitting on one of the bone-colored 
benches; the other girls clustered, gossiping excitedly, on either side of me. Mike kneeled by the fire, 
lighting one of the smaller sticks with a cigarette lighter. 

"No," I said as he placed the blazing twig carefully against the teepee. 

"You'll like this then — watch the colors." He lit another small branch and laid it alongside the first. The 
flames started to lick quickly up the dry wood. 

"It's blue," I said in surprise. 



"The salt does it. Pretty, isn't it?" He lit one more piece, placed it where the fire hadn't yet caught, and 
then came to sit by me. Thankfully, Jess was on his other side. She turned to him and claimed his 
attention. I watched the strange blue and green flames crackle toward the sky. 

After a half hour of chatter, some of the boys wanted to hike to the nearby tidal pools. It was a dilemma. 
On the one hand, I loved the tide pools. They had fascinated me since I was a child; they were one of the 
only things I ever looked forward to when I had to come to Forks. On the other hand, I'd also fallen into 
them a lot. Not a big deal when you're seven and with your dad. It reminded me of Edward's request — 
that I not fall into the ocean. 

Lauren was the one who made my decision for me. She didn't want to hike, and she was definitely 
wearing the wrong shoes for it. Most of the other girls besides Angela and Jessica decided to stay on the 
beach as well. I waited until Tyler and Eric had committed to remaining with them before I got up quietly 
to join the pro-hiking group. Mike gave me a huge smile when he saw that I was coming. 

The hike wasn't too long, though I hated to lose the sky in the woods. The green light of the forest was 
strangely at odds with the adolescent laughter, too murky and ominous to be in harmony with the light 
banter around me. I had to watch each step I took very carefully, avoiding roots below and branches 
above, and I soon fell behind. Eventually I broke through the emerald confines of the forest and found the 
rocky shore again. It was low tide, and a tidal river flowed past us on its way to the sea. Along its 
pebbled banks, shallow pools that never completely drained were teeming with life. 

I was very cautious not to lean too far over the little ocean ponds. The others were fearless, leaping over 
the rocks, perching precariously on the edges. I found a very stable-looking rock on the fringe of one of 
the largest pools and sat there cautiously, spellbound by the natural aquarium below me. The bouquets of 
brilliant anemones undulated ceaselessly in the invisible current, twisted shells scurried about the edges, 
obscuring the crabs within them, starfish stuck motionless to the rocks and each other, while one small 
black eel with white racing stripes wove through the bright green weeds, waiting for the sea to return. I 
was completely absorbed, except for one small part of my mind that wondered what Edward was doing 
now, and trying to imagine what he would be saying if he were here with me. 

Finally the boys were hungry, and I got up stiffly to follow them back. I tried to keep up better this time 
through the woods, so naturally I fell a few times. I got some shallow scrapes on my palms, and the 
knees of my jeans were stained green, but it could have been worse. 

When we got back to First Beach, the group we'd left behind had multiplied. As we got closer we could 
see the shining, straight black hair and copper skin of the newcomers, teenagers from the reservation 
come to socialize. 

The food was already being passed around, and the boys hurried to claim a share while Eric introduced 
us as we each entered the driftwood circle. Angela and I were the last to arrive, and, as Eric said our 
names, I noticed a younger boy sitting on the stones near the fire glance up at me in interest. I sat down 
next to Angela, and Mike brought us sandwiches and an array of sodas to choose from, while a boy who 
looked to be the oldest of the visitors rattled off the names of the seven others with him. All I caught was 
that one of the girls was also named Jessica, and the boy who noticed me was named Jacob. 

It was relaxing to sit with Angela; she was a restful kind of person to be around — she didn't feel the 
need to fill every silence with chatter. She left me free to think undisturbed while we ate. And I was 
thinking about how disjointedly time seemed to flow in Forks, passing in a blur at times, with single 
images standing out more clearly than others. And then, at other times, every second was significant, 
etched in my mind. I knew exactiy what caused the difference, and it disturbed me. 



During lunch the clouds started to advance, shnking across the blue sky, darting in front of the sun 
momentarily, casting long shadows across the beach, and blackening the waves. As they finished eating, 
people started to drift away in twos and threes. Some walked down to the edge of the waves, trying to 
skip rocks across the choppy surface. Others were gathering a second expedition to the tide pools. Mike 
— with Jessica shadowing him — headed up to the one shop in the village. Some of the local kids went 
with them; others went along on the hike. By the time they all had scattered, I was sitting alone on my 
driftwood log, with Lauren and Tyler occupying themselves by the CD player someone had thought to 
bring, and three teenagers from the reservation perched around the circle, including the boy named Jacob 
and the oldest boy who had acted as spokesperson. 

A few minutes after Angela left with the hikers, Jacob sauntered over to take her place by my side. He 
looked fourteen, maybe fifteen, and had long, glossy black hair pulled back with a rubber band at the 
nape of his neck. His skin was beautiful, silky and russet-colored; his eyes were dark, set deep above the 
high planes of his cheekbones. He still had just a hint of childish roundness left around his chin. 
Altogether, a very pretty face. However, my positive opinion of his looks was damaged by the first 
words out of his mouth. 

"You're Isabella Swan, aren't you?" 

It was like the first day of school all over again. 

"Bella," I sighed. 

"I'm Jacob Black." He held his hand out in a friendly gesture. "You bought my dad's truck." 

"Oh," I said, relieved, shaking his sleek hand. "You're Billy's son. I probably should remember you." 

"No, I'm the youngest of the family — you would remember my older sisters." 

"Rachel and Rebecca," I suddenly recalled. Charlie and Billy had thrown us together a lot during my 
visits, to keep us busy while they fished. We were all too shy to make much progress as friends. Of 
course, I'd kicked up enough tantrums to end the fishing trips by the time I was eleven. 

"Are they here?" I examined the girls at the ocean's edge, wondering if I would recognize them now. 

"No." Jacob shook his head. "Rachel got a scholarship to Washington State, and Rebecca married a 
Samoan surfer — she lives in Hawaii now." 

"Married. Wow." I was stunned. The twins were only a little over a year older than I was. 
"So how do you like the truck?" he asked. 
"I love it. It runs great." 

"Yeah, but it's really slow," he laughed. "I was so relived when Charlie bought it. My dad wouldn't let me 
work on building another car when we had a perfectly good vehicle right there." 

"It's not that slow," I objected. 

"Have you tried to go over sixty?" 

"No," I admitted. 



"Good. Don't." He grinned. 



I couldn't help grinning back. "It does great in a collision," I offered in my truck's defense. 
"I don't think a tank could take out that old monster," he agreed with another laugh. 
"So you build cars?" I asked, impressed. 

"When I have free time, and parts. You wouldn't happen to know where I could get my hands on a 
master cylinder for a 1986 Volkswagen Rabbit?" he added jokingly. He had a pleasant, husky voice. 

"Sorry," I laughed, "I haven't seen any lately, but I'll keep my eyes open for you." As if I knew what that 
was. He was very easy to talk with. 

He flashed a brilliant smile, looking at me appreciatively in a way I was learning to recognize. I wasn't the 
only one who noticed. 

"You know Bella, Jacob?" Lauren asked — in what I imagined was an insolent tone — from across the 
fire. 

"We've sort of known each other since I was bom," he laughed, smiling at me again. 

"How nice." She didn't sound like she thought it was nice at all, and her pale, fishy eyes narrowed. 

"Bella," she called again, watching my face carefully, "I was just saying to Tyler that it was too bad none 
of the Cullens could come out today. Didn't anyone think to invite them?" Her expression of concern was 
unconvincing. 

"You mean Dr. Carlisle Cullen's family?" the tall, older boy asked before I could respond, much to 
Lauren's irritation. He was really closer to a man than a boy, and his voice was very deep. 

"Yes, do you know them?" she asked condescendingly, turning halfway toward him. 

"The Cullens don't come here," he said in a tone that closed the subject, ignoring her question. 

Tyler, trying to win back her attention, asked Lauren's opinion on a CD he held. She was distracted. 

I stared at the deep- voiced boy, taken aback, but he was looking away toward the dark forest behind 
us. He'd said that the Cullens didn't come here, but his tone had implied something more — that they 
weren't allowed; they were prohibited. His manner left a strange impression on me, and I tried to ignore it 
without success. 

Jacob interrupted my meditation. "So is Forks driving you insane yet?" 

43:22 And other money have we brought down in our hands to buy food:
we cannot tell who put our money in our sacks.

43:23 And he said, Peace be to you, fear not: your God, and the God of
your father, hath given you treasure in your sacks: I had your money.
And he brought Simeon out unto them.

43:24 And the man brought the men into Joseph’s house, and gave them
water, and they washed their feet; and he gave their asses provender.

43:25 And they made ready the present against Joseph came at noon: for
they heard that they should eat bread there.

43:26 And when Joseph came home, they brought him the present which
was in their hand into the house, and bowed themselves to him to the
earth.

43:27 And he asked them of their welfare, and said, Is your father
well, the old man of whom ye spake? Is he yet alive? 43:28 And they
answered, Thy servant our father is in good health, he is yet alive.
And they bowed down their heads, and made obeisance.

43:29 And he lifted up his eyes, and saw his brother Benjamin, his
mother’s son, and said, Is this your younger brother, of whom ye spake
unto me? And he said, God be gracious unto thee, my son.

43:30 And Joseph made haste; for his bowels did yearn upon his
brother: and he sought where to weep; and he entered into his chamber,
and wept there.

43:31 And he washed his face, and went out, and refrained himself, and
said, Set on bread.

43:32 And they set on for him by himself, and for them by themselves,
and for the Egyptians, which did eat with him, by themselves: because
the Egyptians might not eat bread with the Hebrews; for that is an
abomination unto the Egyptians.

43:33 And they sat before him, the firstborn according to his
birthright, and the youngest according to his youth: and the men
marvelled one at another.

43:34 And he took and sent messes unto them from before him: but
Benjamin’s mess was five times so much as any of theirs. And they
drank, and were merry with him.

44:1 And he commanded the steward of his house, saying, Fill the men’s
sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put every man’s money
in his sack’s mouth.

44:2 And put my cup, the silver cup, in the sack’s mouth of the
youngest, and his corn money. And he did according to the word that
Joseph had spoken.

44:3 As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away, they
and their asses.

44:4 And when they were gone out of the city, and not yet far off,
Joseph said unto his steward, Up, follow after the men; and when thou
dost overtake them, say unto them, Wherefore have ye rewarded evil for
good? 44:5 Is not this it in which my lord drinketh, and whereby
indeed he divineth? ye have done evil in so doing.

44:6 And he overtook them, and he spake unto them these same words.

44:7 And they said unto him, Wherefore saith my lord these words? God
forbid that thy servants should do according to this thing: 44:8
Behold, the money, which we found in our sacks’ mouths, we brought
again unto thee out of the land of Canaan: how then should we steal
out of thy lord’s house silver or gold? 44:9 With whomsoever of thy
servants it be found, both let him die, and we also will be my lord’s
bondmen.

44:10 And he said, Now also let it be according unto your words: he
with whom it is found shall be my servant; and ye shall be blameless.


"Oh, I'd say that's an understatement." I grimaced. He grinned understanding^. 

I was still turning over the brief comment on the Cullens, and I had a sudden inspiration. It was a stupid 
plan, but I didn't have any better ideas. I hoped that young Jacob was as yet inexperienced around girls, 
so that he wouldn't see through my sure-to-be-pitiful attempts at flirting. 

"Do you want to walk down the beach with me?" I asked, trying to imitate that way Edward had of 
looking up from underneath his eyelashes. It couldn't have nearly the same effect, I was sure, but Jacob 
jumped up willingly enough. 

As we walked north across the multihued stones toward the driftwood seawall, the clouds finally closed 
ranks across the sky, causing the sea to darken and the temperature to drop. I shoved my hands deep 
into the pockets of my jacket. 



"So you're, what, sixteen?" I asked, trying not to look like an idiot as I fluttered my eyelids the way I'd 
seen girls do on TV. 

"I just turned fifteen," he confessed, flattered. 

"Really?" My face was full of false surprise. "I would have thought you were older." 
"I'm tall for my age," he explained. 

"Do you come up to Forks much?" I asked archly, as if I was hoping for a yes. I sounded idiotic to 
myself. I was afraid he would turn on me with disgust and accuse me of my fraud, but he still seemed 
flattered. 

"Not too much," he admitted with a frown. "But when I get my car finished I can go up as much as I want 
— after I get my license," he amended. 

"Who was that other boy Lauren was talking to? He seemed a little old to be hanging out with us." I 
purposefully lumped myself in with the youngsters, trying to make it clear that I preferred Jacob. 

"That's Sam — he's nineteen," he informed me. 

"What was that he was saying about the doctor's family?" I asked innocently. 

"The Cullens? Oh, they're not supposed to come onto the reservation." He looked away, out toward 
James Island, as he confirmed what I'd thought I'd heard in Sam's voice. 

"Why not?" 

He glanced back at me, biting his lip. "Oops. I'm not supposed to say anything about that." 

"Oh, I won't tell anyone, I'm just curious." I tried to make my smile alluring, wondering if I was laying it 
on too thick. 

He smiled back, though, looking allured. Then he lifted one eyebrow and his voice was even huskier than 
before. 

"Do you like scary stories?" he asked ominously. 

"I love them," I enthused, making an effort to smolder at him. 

Jacob strolled to a nearby driftwood tree that had its roots sticking out like the attenuated legs of a huge, 
pale spider. He perched lightly on one of the twisted roots while I sat beneath him on the body of the 
tree. He stared down at the rocks, a smile hovering around the edges of his broad lips. I could see he 
was going to try to make this good. I focused on keeping the vital interest I felt out of my eyes. 

"Do you know any of our old stories, about where we came from — the Quileutes, I mean?" he began. 

"Not really," I admitted. 

"Well, there are lots of legends, some of them claiming to date back to the Flood — supposedly, the 
ancient Quileutes tied their canoes to the tops of the tallest trees on the mountain to survive like Noah and 
the ark." He smiled, to show me how little stock he put in the histories. "Another legend claims that we 
descended from wolves — and that the wolves are our brothers still. It's against tribal law to kill them. 

"Then there are the stories about the cold ones." His voice dropped a little lower. 



"The cold ones?" I asked, not faking my intrigue now. 

"Yes. There are stories of the cold ones as old as the wolf legends, and some much more recent. 
According to legend, my own great-grandfather knew some of them. He was the one who made the 
treaty that kept them off our land." He rolled his eyes. 

"Your great-grandfather?" I encouraged. 

"He was a tribal elder, like my father. You see, the cold ones are the natural enemies of the wolf — well, 
not the wolf, really, but the wolves that turn into men, like our ancestors. You would call them 
werewolves." 

"Werewolves have enemies?" 
"Only one." 

I stared at him earnestiy, hoping to disguise my impatience as admiration. 

"So you see," Jacob continued, "the cold ones are traditionally our enemies. But this pack that came to 
our territory during my great-grandfather's time was different. They didn't hunt the way others of their 
kind did — they weren't supposed to be dangerous to the tribe. So my great-grandfather made a truce 
with them. If they would promise to stay off our lands, we wouldn't expose them to the pale-faces." He 
winked at me. 

"If they weren't dangerous, then why. . . ?" I tried to understand, struggling not to let him see how 
seriously I was considering his ghost story. 

"There's always a risk for humans to be around the cold ones, even if they're civilized like this clan was. 
You never know when they might get too hungry to resist." He deliberately worked a thick edge of 
menace into his tone. 

"What do you mean, 'civilized'?" 

"They claimed that they didn't hunt humans. They supposedly were somehow able to prey on animals 
instead." 

I tried to keep my voice casual. "So how does it fit in with the Cullens? Are they like the cold ones your 
greatgrandfather met?" 

"No." He paused dramatically. "They are the same ones." 

He must have thought the expression on my face was fear inspired by his story. He smiled, pleased, and 
continued. 

"There are more of them now, a new female and a new male, but the rest are the same. In my 
great-grandfather's time they already knew of the leader, Carlisle. He'd been here and gone before your 
people had even arrived." He was fighting a smile. 

"And what are they?" I finally asked. "What are the cold ones?" 

He smiled darkly. 

"Blood drinkers," he replied in a chilling voice. "Your people call them vampires." 
I stared out at the rough surf after he answered, not sure what my face was exposing. 



"You have goose bumps," he laughed dehghtedly. 

"You're a good storyteller," I complimented him, still staring into the waves. 

"Pretty crazy stuff, though, isn't it? No wonder my dad doesn't want us to talk about it to anyone." 

I couldn't control my expression enough to look at him yet. "Don't worry, I won't give you away." 

"I guess I just violated the treaty," he laughed. 

"I'll take it to the grave," I promised, and then I shivered. 

"Seriously, though, don't say anything to Charlie. He was pretty mad at my dad when he heard that some 
of us weren't going to the hospital since Dr. Cullen started working there." 

"I won't, of course not." 

"So do you think we're a bunch of superstitious natives or what?" he asked in a playful tone, but with a 
hint of worry. I still hadn't looked away from the ocean. 

I turned and smiled at him as normally as I could. 

"No. I think you're very good at telling scary stories, though. I still have goose bumps, see?" I held up my 
arm. 

"Cool." He smiled. 

And then the sound of the beach rocks clattering against each other warned us that someone was 
approaching. Our heads snapped up at the same time to see Mike and Jessica about fifty yards away, 
walking toward us. 

"There you are, Bella," Mike called in relief, waving his arm over his head. 

"Is that your boyfriend?" Jacob asked, alerted by the jealous edge in Mike's voice. I was surprised it was 
so obvious. 

"No, definitely not," I whispered. I was tremendously grateful to Jacob, and eager to make him as happy 
as possible. I winked at him, carefully turning away from Mike to do so. He smiled, elated by my inept 
flirting. 

"So when I get my license. . . " he began. 

"You should come see me in Forks. We could hang out sometime." I felt guilty as I said this, knowing 
that I'd used him. But I really did like Jacob. He was someone I could easily be friends with. 

Mike had reached us now, with Jessica still a few paces back. I could see his eyes appraising Jacob, and 
looking satisfied at his obvious youth. 

"Where have you been?" he asked, though the answer was right in front of him. 
"Jacob was just telling me some local stories," I volunteered. "It was really interesting." 
I smiled at Jacob warmly, and he grinned back. 

"Well," Mike paused, carefully reassessing the situation as he watched our camaraderie. "We're packing 
up — it looks like it's going to rain soon." 



We all looked up at the glowering sky. It certainly did look like rain. 
"Okay." I jumped up. "I'm coming." 

"It was nice to see you again ," Jacob said, and I could tell he was taunting Mike just a bit. 
"It really was. Next time Charlie comes down to see Billy, I'll come, too," I promised. 
His grin stretched across his face. "That would be cool." 
"And thanks," I added earnestly. 

I pulled up my hood as we tramped across the rocks toward the parking lot. A few drops were 
beginning to fall, making black spots on the stones where they landed. When we got to the Suburban the 
others were already loading everything back in. I crawled into the backseat by Angela and Tyler, 
announcing that I'd already had my turn in the shotgun position. Angela just stared out the window at the 
escalating storm, and Lauren twisted around in the middle seat to occupy Tyler's attention, so I could 
simply lay my head back on the seat and close my eyes and try very hard not to think. 



7. NIGHTMARE 



I told Charlie I had a lot of homework to do, and that I didn't want anything to eat. There was a 
basketball game on that he was excited about, though of course / had no idea what was special about it, 
so he wasn't aware of anything unusual in my face or tone. 

Once in my room, I locked the door. I dug through my desk until I found my old headphones, and I 
plugged them into my little CD player. I picked up a CD that Phil had given to me for Christmas. It was 
one of his favorite bands, but they used a little too much bass and shrieking for my tastes. I popped it into 
place and lay down on my bed. I put on the headphones, hit Play, and turned up the volume until it hurt 
my ears. I closed my eyes, but the light still intruded, so I added a pillow over the top half of my face. 

I concentrated very carefully on the music, trying to understand the lyrics, to unravel the complicated 
drum patterns. By the third time I'd listened through the CD, I knew all the words to the choruses, at 
least. I was surprised to find that I really did like the band after all, once I got past the blaring noise. I'd 
have to thank Phil again. 

And it worked. The shattering beats made it impossible for me to think — which was the whole purpose 
of the exercise. I listened to the CD again and again, until I was singing along with all the songs, until, 
finally, I fell asleep. 

I opened my eyes to a familiar place. Aware in some corner of my consciousness that I was dreaming, I 
recognized the green light of the forest. I could hear the waves crashing against the rocks somewhere 
nearby. And I knew that if I found the ocean, I'd be able to see the sun. I was trying to follow the sound, 
but then Jacob Black was there, tugging on my hand, pulling me back toward the blackest part of the 
forest. 

"Jacob? What's wrong?" I asked. His face was frightened as he yanked with all his strength against my 
resistance; I didn't want to go into the dark. 

"Run, Bella, you have to run!" he whispered, terrified. 



"This way, Bella!" I recognized Mike's voice calling out of the gloomy heart of the trees, but I couldn't 
see him. 

"Why?" I asked, still pulling against Jacob's grasp, desperate now to find the sun. 

But Jacob let go of my hand and yelped, suddenly shaking, falling to the dim forest floor. He twitched on 
the ground as I watched in horror. 

"Jacob!" I screamed. But he was gone. In his place was a large red-brown wolf with black eyes. The 
wolf faced away from me, pointing toward the shore, the hair on the back of his shoulders bristling, low 
growls issuing from between his exposed fangs. 

"Bella, run!" Mike cried out again from behind me. But I didn't turn. I was watching a light coming toward 
me from the beach. 

And on the other side of the field were thousands of Russians and Poles and 
Yugoslavians and so on guarded by American soldiers. An exchange was made there in 
the rain-one for one. O'Hare and I climbed into the back of an American truck with a lot 
of others. O'Hare didn’t have any souvenirs. Almost everybody else did. I had a 
ceremonial Luftwaffe saber, still do. The rabid little American I call Paul Lazzaro in this 
book had about a quart of diamonds and emeralds and rubies and so on’ He had taken 
these from dead people in the cellars of Dresden.’ So it goes. 

An idiotic Englishman, who had lost all his teeth somewhere had his souvenir in a 
canvas bag. The bag was resting on my insteps. He would peek into the bag every now 
and then, and he would roll his eyes and swivel his scrawny neck,, trying to catch people 
looking covetously at his bag. And he would bounce the bag on my insteps. 

I thought this bouncing was accidental. But I was mistaken. He had to show somebody 
what was in the bag, and he had decided he could trust me. He caught my eye, winked, 



opened the bag. There was a plaster model of the Eiffel Tower in there. It was painted 
gold. It had a clock in it. 

’There's a smashin’ thing,' he said. 

And we were flown to a rest camp in France, where we were fed chocolate malted 
milkshakes and other rich foods until we were all covered with baby fat. Then we were 
sent home, and I married a pretty girl who was covered with baby fat, too. 

And we had babies. 

And they're all grown up now, and I'm an old fart with his memories and his Pall 
Malls. My name is Yon Yonson, I work in Wisconsin, I work in a lumbennill there. 

Sometimes I try to call up old girl friends on the telephone late at night, after my wife 
has gone to bed. 'Operator, I wonder if you could give me the number of a Mrs. So-and- 
So. I think she lives at such-and-such.’ 

'I'm sorry, sir. There is no such listing.' 

'Thanks, Operator. Thanks just the same.' 

And I let the dog out or I let him in, and we talk some. I let him know I like him, and 
he lets me know he likes me. He doesn’t mind the smell of mustard gas and roses. 

'You're all right, Sandy, I'll say to the dog. 'You know that, Sandy? You're O.K.' 

Sometimes I'll turn on the radio and listen to a talk program from Boston or New York. 
I can't stand recorded music if I've been drinking a good deal. 

Sooner or later I go to bed, and my wife asks me what time it is. She always has to 
know the time. Sometimes I don’t know, and I say, 'Search me.' 

I think about my education sometimes. I went to the University of Chicago for a while 
after the Second World War. I was a student in the Department of Anthropology. At that 
time, they were teaching that there was absolutely no difference between anybody. They 
may be teaching that still. 

Another thing they taught was that nobody was ridiculous or bad or disgusting. Shortly 
before my father died, he said to me, 'You know-you never wrote a story with a villain in 
it.' 


And then Edward stepped out from the trees, his skin faintly glowing, his eyes black and dangerous. He 
held up one hand and beckoned me to come to him. The wolf growled at my feet. 

I took a step forward, toward Edward. He smiled then, and his teeth were sharp, pointed. 

"Trust me," he purred. 

I took another step. 

The wolf launched himself across the space between me and the vampire, fangs aiming for the jugular. 
"No!" I screamed, wrenching upright out of my bed. 

My sudden movement caused the headphones to pull the CD player off the bedside table, and it clattered 
to the wooden floor. 

My light was still on, and I was sitting fully dressed on the bed, with my shoes on. I glanced, disoriented, 
at the clock on my dresser. It was five-thirty in the morning. 

I groaned, fell back, and rolled over onto my face, kicking off my boots. I was too uncomfortable to get 
anywhere near sleep, though. I rolled back over and unbuttoned my jeans, yanking them off awkwardly 
as I tried to stay horizontal. I could feel the braid in my hair, an uncomfortable ridge along the back of my 
skull. I turned onto my side and ripped the rubber band out, quickly combing through the plaits with my 
fingers. I pulled the pillow back over my eyes. 

It was all no use, of course. My subconscious had dredged up exactly the images I'd been trying so 
desperately to avoid. I was going to have to face them now. 

I sat up, and my head spun for a minute as the blood flowed downward. First things first, I thought to 
myself, happy to put it off as long as possible. I grabbed my bathroom bag. 

The shower didn't last nearly as long as I hoped it would, though. Even taking the time to blow-dry my 
hair, I was soon out of things to do in the bathroom. Wrapped in a towel, I crossed back to my room. I 
couldn't tell if Charlie was still asleep, or if he had already left. I went to look out my window, and the 
cruiser was gone. Fishing again. 

I dressed slowly in my most comfy sweats and then made my bed — something I never did. I couldn't 
put it off any longer. I went to my desk and switched on my old computer. 

I hated using the Internet here. My modem was sadly outdated, my free service substandard; just dialing 



up took so long that I decided to go get myself a bowl of cereal while I waited. 

I ate slowly, chewing each bite with care. When I was done, I washed the bowl and spoon, dried them, 
and put them away. My feet dragged as I climbed the stairs. I went to my CD player first, picking it up 
off the floor and placing it precisely in the center of the table. I pulled out the headphones, and put them 
away in the desk drawer. Then I turned the same CD on, turning it down to the point where it was 
background noise. 

With another sigh, I turned to my computer. Naturally, the screen was covered in pop- up ads. I sat in my 
hard folding chair and began closing all the little windows. Eventually I made it to my favorite search 
engine. I shot down a few more pop-ups and then typed in one word. 

Vampire. 

It took an infuriatingly long time, of course. When the results came up, there was a lot to sift through — 
everything from movies and TV shows to role-playing games, underground metal, and gothic cosmetic 
companies. 

Then I found a promising site — Vampires A — Z. I waited impatientiy for it to load, quickly clicking 
closed each ad that flashed across the screen. Finally the screen was finished — simple white 
background with black text, academic-looking. Two quotes greeted me on the home page: 



Throughout the vast shadowy world of ghosts and demons there is no figure so terrible, no figure 
so dreaded and abhorred, yet dight with such fearful fascination, as the vampire, who is himself 
neither ghost nor demon, but yet who partakes the dark natures and possesses the mysterious and 
terrible qualities of both. — Rev. Montague Summers 



If there is in this world a well-attested account, it is that of the vampires. Nothing is lacking: 
official reports, affidavits of well-known people, of surgeons, of priests, of magistrates; the 
judicial proof is most complete. And with all that, who is there who believes in vampiresl — 
Rousseau 



The rest of the site was an alphabetized listing of all the different myths of vampires held throughout the 
world. The first I clicked on, the Danag, was a Filipino vampire supposedly responsible for planting taro 
on the islands long ago. The myth continued that the Danag worked with humans for many years, but the 
partnership ended one day when a woman cut her finger and a Danag sucked her wound, enjoying the 
taste so much that it drained her body completely of blood. 

I read carefully through the descriptions, looking for anything that sounded familiar, let alone plausible. It 
seemed that most vampire myths centered around beautiful women as demons and children as victims; 
they also seemed like constructs created to explain away the high mortality rates for young children, and 
to give men an excuse for infidelity. Many of the stories involved bodiless spirits and warnings against 
improper burials. There wasn't much that sounded like the movies I'd seen, and only a very few, like the 
Hebrew Estrie and the Polish Upier, who were even preoccupied with drinking blood. 

Only three entries really caught my attention: the Romanian Varacolaci, a powerful undead being who 
could appear as a beautiful, pale- skinned human, the Slovak Nelapsi, a creature so strong and fast it 



could massacre an entire village in the single hour after midnight, and one other, the Stregoni benefici. 
About this last there was only one brief sentence. 

Stregoni benefici: An Italian vampire, said to be on the side of goodness, and a mortal enemy of 
all evil vampires. 

It was a relief, that one small entry, the one myth among hundreds that claimed the existence of good 
vampires. 

Overall, though, there was little that coincided with Jacob's stories or my own observations. I'd made a 
little catalogue in my mind as I'd read and carefully compared it with each myth. Speed, strength, beauty, 
pale skin, eyes that shift color; and then Jacob's criteria: blood drinkers, enemies of the werewolf, 
cold-skinned, and immortal. There were very few myths that matched even one factor. 

And then another problem, one that I'd remembered from the small number of scary movies that I'd seen 
and was backed up by today's reading — vampires couldn't come out in the daytime, the sun would burn 
them to a cinder. They slept in coffins all day and came out only at night. 

Aggravated, I snapped off the computer's main power switch, not waiting to shut things down properly. 
Through my irritation, I felt overwhelming embarrassment. It was all so stupid. I was sitting in my room, 
researching vampires. What was wrong with me? I decided that most of the blame belonged on the 
doorstep of the town of Forks — and the entire sodden Olympic Peninsula, for that matter. 

I had to get out of the house, but there was nowhere I wanted to go that didn't involve a three-day drive. 
I pulled on my boots anyway, unclear where I was headed, and went downstairs. I shrugged into my 
raincoat without checking the weather and stomped out the door. 

It was overcast, but not raining yet. I ignored my truck and started east on foot, angling across Charlie's 
yard toward the ever-encroaching forest. It didn't take long till I was deep enough for the house and the 
road to be invisible, for the only sound to be the squish of the damp earth under my feet and the sudden 
cries of the jays. 

There was a thin ribbon of a trail that led through the forest here, or I wouldn't risk wandering on my own 
like this. My sense of direction was hopeless; I could get lost in much less helpful surroundings. The trail 
wound deeper and deeper into the forest, mostly east as far as I could tell. It snaked around the Sitka 
spruces and the hemlocks, the yews and the maples. I only vaguely knew the names of the trees around 
me, and all I knew was due to Charlie pointing them out to me from the cruiser window in earlier days. 
There were many I didn't know, and others I couldn't be sure about because they were so covered in 
green parasites. 

I followed the trail as long as my anger at myself pushed me forward. As that started to ebb, I slowed. A 
few drops of moisture trickled down from the canopy above me, but I couldn't be certain if it was 
beginning to rain or if it was simply pools left over from yesterday, held high in the leaves above me, 
slowly dripping their way back to the earth. A recently fallen tree — I knew it was recent because it 
wasn't entirely carpeted in moss — rested against the trunk of one of her sisters, creating a sheltered little 
bench just a few safe feet off the trail. I stepped over the ferns and sat carefully, making sure my jacket 
was between the damp seat and my clothes wherever they touched, and leaned my hooded head back 
against the living tree. 

This was the wrong place to have come. I should have known, but where else was there to go? The 
forest was deep green and far too much like the scene in last night's dream to allow for peace of mind. 
Now that there was no longer the sound of my soggy footsteps, the silence was piercing. The birds were 



quiet, too, the drops increasing in frequency, so it must be raining above. The ferns stood higher than my 
head, now that I was seated, and I knew someone could walk by on the path, three feet away, and not 
see me. 

Here in the trees it was much easier to believe the absurdities that embarrassed me indoors. Nothing had 
changed in this forest for thousands of years, and all the myths and legends of a hundred different lands 
seemed much more likely in this green haze than they had in my clear-cut bedroom. 

I forced myself to focus on the two most vital questions I had to answer, but I did so unwillingly. 

First, I had to decide if it was possible that what Jacob had said about the Cullens could be true. 

Immediately my mind responded with a resounding negative. It was silly and morbid to entertain such 
ridiculous notions. But what, then? I asked myself. There was no rational explanation for how I was alive 
at this moment. I listed again in my head the things I'd observed myself: the impossible speed and 
strength, the eye color shifting from black to gold and back again, the inhuman beauty, the pale, frigid 
skin. And more — small things that registered slowly — how they never seemed to eat, the disturbing 
grace with which they moved. And the way be 

sometimes spoke, with unfamiUar cadences and phrases that better fit the style of a tum-of-the-century 
novel than that of a twenty-first-century classroom. He had skipped class the day we'd done blood 
typing. He hadn't said no to the beach trip till he heard where we were going. He seemed to know what 
everyone around him was thinking. . . except me. He had told me he was the villain, dangerous. . . 

Could the Cullens be vampires? 

Well, they were something. Something outside the possibility of rational justification was taking place in 
front of my incredulous eyes. Whether it be Jacob's cold ones or my own superhero theory, Edward 
Cullen was not. . . human. He was something more. 

So then — maybe. That would have to be my answer for now. 

And then the most important question of all. What was I going to do if it was true? 

7f Edward was a vampire — I could hardly make myself think the words — then what should I do? 
Involving someone else was definitely out. I couldn't even believe myself; anyone I told would have me 
committed. 

Only two options seemed practical. The first was to take his advice: to be smart, to avoid him as much as 
possible. To cancel our plans, to go back to ignoring him as far as I was able. To pretend there was an 
impenetrably thick glass wall between us in the one class where we were forced together. To tell him to 
leave me alone — and mean it this time. 

I was gripped in a sudden agony of despair as I considered that alternative. My mind rejected the pain, 
quickly skipping on to the next option. 

I could do nothing different. After all, if he was something. . . sinister, he'd done nothing to hurt me so far. 
In fact, I would be a dent in Tyler's fender if he hadn't acted so quickly. So quickly, I argued with myself, 
that it might have been sheer reflexes. But if it was a reflex to save lives, how bad could he be? I retorted. 
My head spun around in answerless circles. 

There was one thing I was sure of, if I was sure of anything. The dark Edward in my dream last night was 
a reflection only of my fear of the word Jacob had spoken, and not Edward himself. Even so, when I'd 
screamed out in terror at the werewolf s lunge, it wasn't fear for the wolf that brought the cry of "no" to 



my lips. It was fear that he would be harmed — even as he called to me with sharp-edged fangs, I feared 
for him. 

And I knew in that I had my answer. I didn't know if there ever was a choice, really. I was already in too 
deep. Now that I knew — if I knew — I could do nothing about my frightening secret. Because when I 
thought of him, of his voice, his hypnotic eyes, the magnetic force of his personality, I wanted nothing 
more than to be with him right now. Even if. . . but I couldn't think it. Not here, alone in the darkening 
forest. Not while the rain made it dim as twilight under the canopy and pattered like footsteps across the 
matted earthen floor. I shivered and rose quickly from my place of concealment, worried that somehow 
the path would have disappeared with the rain. 

But it was there, safe and clear, winding its way out of the dripping green maze. I followed it hastily, my 
hood pulled close around my face, becoming surprised, as I nearly ran through the trees, at how far I had 
come. I started to wonder if I was heading out at all, or following the path farther into the confines of the 
forest. Before I could get too panicky, though, I began to glimpse some open spaces through the webbed 
branches. And then I could hear a car passing on the street, and I was free, Charlie's lawn stretched out 
in front of me, the house beckoning me, promising warmth and dry socks. 

It was just noon when I got back inside. I went upstairs and got dressed for the day, jeans and a t-shirt, 
since I was staying indoors. It didn't take too much effort to concentrate on my task for the day, a paper 
on Macbeth that was due Wednesday. I settled into outlining a rough draft contentedly, more serene than 
I'd felt since. . . well, since Thursday afternoon, if I was being honest. 

That had always been my way, though. Making decisions was the painful part for me, the part I agonized 
over. But once the decision was made, I simply followed through — usually with relief that the choice 
was made. Sometimes the relief was tainted by despair, like my decision to come to Forks. But it was 
still better than wrestling with the alternatives. 

This decision was ridiculously easy to live with. Dangerously easy. 

And so the day was quiet, productive — I finished my paper before eight. Charlie came home with a 
large catch, and I made a mental note to pick up a book of recipes for fish while I was in Seattle next 
week. The chills that flashed up my spine whenever I thought of that trip were no different than the ones 
I'd felt before I'd taken my walk with Jacob Black. They should be different, I thought. I should be afraid 
— I knew I should be, but I couldn't feel the right kind of fear. 

I slept dreamlessly that night, exhausted from beginning my day so early, and sleeping so poorly the night 
before. I woke, for the second time since arriving in Forks, to the bright yellow light of a sunny day. I 
skipped to the window, stunned to see that there was hardly a cloud in the sky, and those there were just 
fleecy little white puffs that couldn't possibly be carrying any rain. I opened the window — surprised 
when it opened silentiy, without sticking, not having opened it in who knows how many years — and 
sucked in the relatively dry air. It was nearly warm and hardly windy at all. My blood was electric in my 
veins. 

Charlie was finishing breakfast when I came downstairs, and he picked up on my mood immediately. 
"Nice day out," he commented. 
"Yes," I agreed with a grin. 

He smiled back, his brown eyes crinkling around the edges. When Charlie smiled, it was easier to see 
why he and my mother had jumped too quickly into an early marriage. Most of the young romantic he'd 
been in those days had faded before I'd known him, as the curly brown hair — the same color, if not the 



same texture, as mine — had dwindled, slowly revealing more and more of the shiny skin of his forehead. 
But when he smiled I could see a little of the man who had run away with Renee when she was just two 
years older than I was now. 

I ate breakfast cheerily, watching the dust moats stirring in the sunlight that streamed in the back window. 
Charlie called out a goodbye, and I heard the cruiser pull away from the house. I hesitated on my way 
out the door, hand on my rain jacket. It would be tempting fate to leave it home. With a sigh, I folded it 
over my arm and stepped out into the brightest light I'd seen in months. 

By dint of much elbow grease, I was able to get both windows in the truck almost completely rolled 
down. I was one of the first ones to school; I hadn't even checked the clock in my hurry to get outside. I 
parked and headed toward the seldom-used picnic benches on the south side of the cafeteria. The 
benches were still a little damp, so I sat on my jacket, glad to have a use for it. My homework was done 
— the product of a slow social life — but there were a few Trig problems I wasn't sure I had right. I 
took out my book industriously, but halfway through rechecking the first problem I was daydreaming, 
watching the sunlight play on the red-barked trees. I sketched inattentively along the margins of my 
homework. After a few minutes, I suddenly realized I'd drawn five pairs of dark eyes staring out of the 
page at me. I scrubbed them out with the eraser. 

"Bella!" I heard someone call, and it sounded like Mike. 

I looked around to realize that the school had become populated while I'd been sitting there, 
absentminded. Everyone was in t-shirts, some even in shorts though the temperature couldn't be over 
sixty. Mike was coming toward me in khaki shorts and a striped Rugby shirt, waving. 

"Hey, Mike," I called, waving back, unable to be halfhearted on a morning like this. 

He came to sit by me, the tidy spikes of his hair shining golden in the light, his grin stretching across his 
face. He was so delighted to see me, I couldn't help but feel gratified. 

"I never noticed before — your hair has red in it," he commented, catching between his fingers a strand 
that was fluttering in the light breeze. 

"Only in the sun." 

I became just a little uncomfortable as he tucked the lock behind my ear. 

"Great day, isn't it?" 

"My kind of day," I agreed. 

"What did you do yesterday?" His tone was just a bit too proprietary. 

"I mostly worked on my essay." I didn't add that I was finished with it — no need to sound smug. 
He hit his forehead with the heel of his hand. "Oh yeah — that's due Thursday, right?" 
"Urn, Wednesday, I think." 

"Wednesday?" He frowned. "That's not good. . . What are you writing yours on?" 
"Whether Shakespeare's treatment of the female characters is misogynistic." 
He stared at me like I'd just spoken in pig Latin. 



"I guess I'll have to get to work on that tonight," he said, deflated. "I was going to ask if you wanted to go 
out" 

"Oh." I was taken off guard. Why couldn't I ever have a pleasant conversation with Mike anymore 
without it getting awkward? 

"Well, we could go to dinner or something. . . and I could work on it later." He smiled at me hopefully. 

"Mike. . . " I hated being put on the spot. "I don't think that would be the best idea." 

His face fell. "Why?" he asked, his eyes guarded. My thoughts flickered to Edward, wondering if that's 
where his thoughts were as well. 

"I think. . . and if you ever repeat what I'm saying right now I will cheerfully beat you to death," I 
threatened, "but I think that would hurt Jessica's feelings." 

He was bewildered, obviously not thinking in that direction at all. "Jessica?" 

"Really, Mike, are you blind?' 

"Oh," he exhaled — clearly dazed. I took advantage of that to make my escape. 

"It's time for class, and I can't be late again." I gathered my books up and stuffed them in my bag. 

We walked in silence to building three, and his expression was distracted. I hoped whatever thoughts he 
was immersed in were leading him in the right direction. 

When I saw Jessica in Trig, she was bubbling with enthusiasm. She, Angela, and Lauren were going to 
Port Angeles tonight to go dress shopping for the dance, and she wanted me to come, too, even though I 
didn't need one. I was indecisive. It would be nice to get out of town with some girlfriends, but Lauren 
would be there. And who knew what I could be doing tonight. . . But that was definitely the wrong path 
to let my mind wander down. Of course I was happy about the sunlight. But that wasn't completely 
responsible for the euphoric mood I was in, not even close. 

So I gave her a maybe, telling her I'd have to talk with Charlie first. 

She talked of nothing but the dance on the way to Spanish, continuing as if without an interruption when 
class finally ended, five minutes late, and we were on our way to lunch. I was far too lost in my own 
frenzy of anticipation to notice much of what she said. I was painfully eager to see not just him but all the 
Cullens — to compare them with the new suspicions that plagued my mind. As I crossed the threshold of 
the cafeteria, I felt the first true tingle of fear slither down my spine and settle in my stomach. Would they 
be able to know what I was thinking? And then a different feeling jolted through me — would Edward be 
waiting to sit with me again? 

As was my routine, I glanced first toward the Cullens' table. A shiver of panic trembled in my stomach as 
I realized it was empty. With dwindling hope, my eyes scoured the rest of the cafeteria, hoping to find 
him alone, waiting for me. The place was nearly filled — Spanish had made us late — but there was no 
sign of Edward or any of his family. Desolation hit me with crippling strength. 

I shambled along behind Jessica, not bothering to pretend to listen anymore. 

We were late enough that everyone was already at our table. I avoided the empty chair next to Mike in 
favor of one by Angela. I vaguely noticed that Mike held the chair out politely for Jessica, and that her 
face lit up in response. 



Angela asked a few quiet questions about the Macbeth paper, which I answered as naturally as I could 
while spiraling downward in misery. She, too, invited me to go with them tonight, and I agreed now, 
grasping at anything to distract myself. 

I realized I'd been holding on to a last shred of hope when I entered Biology, saw his empty seat, and felt 
a new wave of disappointment. 

The rest of the day passed slowly, dismally. In Gym, we had a lecture on the rules of badminton, the next 
torture they had lined up for me. But at least it meant I got to sit and listen instead of stumbling around on 
the court. The best part was the coach didn't finish, so I got another day off tomorrow. Never mind that 
the day after they would arm me with a racket before unleashing me on the rest of the class. 

I was glad to leave campus, so I would be free to pout and mope before I went out tonight with Jessica 
and company. But right after I walked in the door of Charlie's house, Jessica called to cancel our plans. I 
tried to be happy that Mike had asked her out to dinner — I really was relieved that he finally seemed to 
be catching on — but my enthusiasm sounded false in my own ears. She rescheduled our shopping trip 
for tomorrow night. 

Which left me with little in the way of distractions. I had fish marinating for dinner, with a salad and bread 
left over from the night before, so there was nothing to do there. I spent a focused half hour on 
homework, but then I was through with that, too. I checked my e-mail, reading the backlog of letters 
from my mother, getting snippier as they progressed to the present. I sighed and typed a quick response. 



Mom, 

Sorry. I've been out. I went to the beach with some friends. And I had to write a paper. 



My excuses were fairly pathetic, so I gave up on that. 

It's sunny outside today - 1 know, I'm shocked, too - so I'm going to go outside and soak up 
as much vitamin D as I can. I love you, 

Bella. 

I decided to kill an hour with non-school-related reading. I had a small collection of books that came 
with me to Forks, the shabbiest volume being a compilation of the works of Jane Austen. I selected that 
one and headed to the backyard, grabbing a ragged old quilt from the linen cupboard at the top of the 
stairs on my way down. 

Outside in Charlie's small, square yard, I folded the quilt in half and laid it out of the reach of the trees' 
shadows on the thick lawn that would always be slightly wet, no matter how long the sun shone. I lay on 
my stomach, crossing my ankles in the air, flipping through the different novels in the book, trying to 
decide which would occupy my mind the most thoroughly. My favorites were Pride and Prejudice and 
Sense and Sensibility. I'd read the first most recently, so I started into Sense and Sensibility, only to 
remember after I began three that the hero of the story happened to be named Edward. Angrily, I turned 
to Mansfield Park, but the hero of that piece was named Edmund, and that was just too close. Weren't 



there any other names available in the late eighteenth century? I snapped the book shut, annoyed, and 
rolled over onto my back. I pushed my sleeves up as high as they would go, and closed my eyes. I would 
think of nothing but the warmth on my skin, I told myself severely. The breeze was still light, but it blew 
tendrils of my hair around my face, and that tickled a bit. I pulled all my hair over my head, letting it fan 
out on the quilt above me, and focused again on the heat that touched my eyelids, my cheekbones, my 
nose, my lips, my forearms, my neck, soaked through my light shirt. . . 

The next thing I was conscious of was the sound of Charlie's cruiser turning onto the bricks of the 
driveway. I sat up in surprise, realizing the light was gone, behind the trees, and I had fallen asleep. I 
looked around, muddled, with the sudden feeling that I wasn't alone. 

"Charlie?" I asked. But I could hear his door slamming in front of the house. 

I jumped up, foolishly edgy, gathering the now-damp quilt and my book. I ran inside to get some oil 
heating on the stove, realizing that dinner would be late. Charlie was hanging up his gun belt and stepping 
out of his boots when I came in. 

"Sorry, Dad, dinner's not ready yet — I fell asleep outside." I stifled a yawn. 

"Don't worry about it," he said. "I wanted to catch the score on the game, anyway." 

I watched TV with Charlie after dinner, for something to do. There wasn't anything on I wanted to watch, 
but he knew I didn't like baseball, so he turned it to some mindless sitcom that neither of us enjoyed. He 
seemed happy, though, to be doing something together. And it felt good, despite my depression, to make 
him happy. 

"Dad," I said during a commercial, "Jessica and Angela are going to look at dresses for the dance 
tomorrow night in Port Angeles, and they wanted me to help them choose. . . do you mind if I go with 
them?" 

"Jessica Stanley?" he asked. 

"And Angela Weber." I sighed as I gave him the details. 
He was confused. "But you're not going to the dance, right?" 

"No, Dad, but I'm helping them find dresses — you know, giving them constructive criticism." I wouldn't 
have to explain this to a woman. 

"Well, okay." He seemed to realize that he was out of his depth with the girlie stuff. "It's a school night, 
though." 

"We'll leave right after school, so we can get back early. You'll be okay for dinner, right?" 
"Bells, I fed myself for seventeen years before you got here," he reminded me. 

"I don't know how you survived," I muttered, then added more clearly, "I'll leave some things for cold-cut 
sandwiches in the fridge, okay? Pdght on top." 

It was sunny again in the morning. I awakened with renewed hope that I grimly tried to suppress. I 
dressed for the warmer weather in a deep blue V-neck blouse — something I'd worn in the dead of 
winter in Phoenix. 

I had planned my arrival at school so that I barely had time to make it to class. With a sinking heart, I 



circled the full lot looking for a space, while also searching for the silver Volvo that was clearly not there. 
I parked in the last row and hurried to English, arriving breathless, but subdued, before the final bell. 

It was the same as yesterday — I just couldn't keep little sprouts of hope from budding in my mind, only 
to have them squashed painfully as I searched the lunchroom in vain and sat at my empty Biology table. 

The Port Angeles scheme was back on again for tonight and made all the more attractive by the fact that 
Lauren had other obligations. I was anxious to get out of town so I could stop glancing over my shoulder, 
hoping to see him appearing out of the blue the way he always did. I vowed to myself that I would be in a 
good mood tonight and not ruin Angela's or Jessica's enjoyment in the dress hunting. Maybe I could do a 
little clothes shopping as well. I refused to think that I might be shopping alone in Seattle this weekend, 
no longer interested in the earlier arrangement. Surely he wouldn't cancel without at least telling me. 

After school, Jessica followed me home in her old white Mercury so that I could ditch my books and 
truck. I brushed through my hair quickly when I was inside, feeling a slight lift of excitement as I 
contemplated getting out of Forks. I left a note for Charlie on the table, explaining again where to find 
dinner, switched my scruffy wallet from my school bag to a purse I rarely used, and ran out to join 
Jessica. We went to Angela's house next, and she was waiting for us. My excitement increased 
exponentially as we actually drove out of the town limits. 



8. PORT ANGELES 



Jess drove faster than the Chief, so we made it to Port Angeles by four. It had been a while since I'd had 
a girls' night out, and the estrogen rush was invigorating. We listened to whiny rock songs while Jessica 
jabbered on about the boys we hung out with. Jessica's dinner with Mike had gone very well, and she 
was hoping that by Saturday night they would have progressed to the first-kiss stage. I smiled to myself, 
pleased. Angela was passively happy to be going to the dance, but not really interested in Eric. Jess tried 
to get her to confess who her type was, but I interrupted with a question about dresses after a bit, to 
spare her. Angela threw a grateful glance my way. 

Port Angeles was a beautiful little tourist trap, much more polished and quaint than Forks. But Jessica 
and Angela knew it well, so they didn't plan to waste time on the picturesque boardwalk by the bay. Jess 
drove straight to the one big department store in town, which was a few streets in from the bay area's 
visitor-friendly face. 

The dance was billed as semiformal, and we weren't exactly sure what that meant. Both Jessica and 
Angela seemed surprised and almost disbelieving when I told them I'd never been to a dance in Phoenix. 

"Didn't you ever go with a boyfriend or something?" Jess asked dubiously as we walked through the front 
doors of the store. 

"Really," I tried to convince her, not wanting to confess my dancing problems. "I've never had a boyfriend 
or anything close. I didn't go out much." 

"Why not?" Jessica demanded. 

"No one asked me," I answered honestly. 

She looked skeptical. "People ask you out here," she reminded me, "and you tell them no." We were in 
the juniors' section now, scanning the racks for dress-up clothes. 



"Well, except for Tyler," Angela amended quietiy. 
"Excuse me?" I gasped. "What did you say?" 

"Tyler told everyone he's taking you to prom," Jessica informed me with suspicious eyes. 

"He said what?' I sounded like I was choking. 

"I told you it wasn't true," Angela murmured to Jessica. 

I was silent, still lost in shock that was quickly turning to irritation. But we had found the dress racks, and 
now we had work to do. 

"That's why Lauren doesn't like you," Jessica giggled while we pawed through the clothes. 

I ground my teeth. "Do you think that if I ran him over with my truck he would stop feeling guilty about 
the accident? That he might give up on making amends and call it even?" 

"Maybe," Jess snickered, '"//'that's why he's doing this." 

The dress selection wasn't large, but both of them found a few things to try on. I sat on a low chair just 
inside the dressing room, by the three-way mirror, trying to control my fuming. 

Jess was torn between two — one a long, strapless, basic black number, the other a knee-length electric 
blue with spaghetti straps. I encouraged her to go with the blue; why not play up the eyes? Angela chose 
a pale pink dress that draped around her tall frame nicely and brought out honey tints in her light brown 
hair. I complimented them both generously and helped by returning the rejects to their racks. The whole 
process was much shorter and easier than similar trips I'd taken with Renee at home. I guess there was 
something to be said for limited choices. 

We headed over to shoes and accessories. While they tried things on I merely watched and critiqued, not 
in the mood to shop for myself, though I did need new shoes. The girls'-night high was wearing off in the 
wake of my annoyance at Tyler, leaving room for the gloom to move back in. 

"Angela?" I began, hesitant, while she was trying on a pair of pink strappy heels — she was overjoyed to 
have a date tall enough that she could wear high heels at all. 

Jessica had drifted to the jewelry counter and we were alone. 

"Yes?" She held her leg out, twisting her ankle to get a better view of the shoe. 

I chickened out. "I like those." 

"I think I'll get them — though they'll never match anything but the one dress," she mused. 

"Oh, go ahead — they're on sale," I encouraged. She smiled, putting the lid back on a box that contained 
more practical-looking off-white shoes. 

I tried again. "Um, Angela. . . " She looked up curiously. 

"Is it normal for the. . . Cullens" — I kept my eyes on the shoes — "to be out of school a lot?" I failed 
miserably in my attempt to sound nonchalant. 

"Yes, when the weather is good they go backpacking all the time — even the doctor. They're all real 
outdoorsy," she told me quietiy, examining her shoes, too. She didn't ask one question, let alone the 



hundreds that Jessica would have unleashed. I was beginning to really like Angela. 

"Oh." I let the subject drop as Jessica returned to show us the rhinestone jewelry she'd found to match 
her silver shoes. 

We planned to go to dinner at a little Italian restaurant on the boardwalk, but the dress shopping hadn't 
taken as long as we'd expected. Jess and Angela were going to take their clothes back to the car and 
then walk down to the bay. I told them I would meet them at the restaurant in an hour — I wanted to 
look for a bookstore. They were both willing to come with me, but I encouraged them to go have fun — 
they didn't know how preoccupied I could get when surrounded by books; it was something I preferred 
to do alone. They walked off to the car chattering happily, and I headed in the direction Jess pointed out. 

I had no trouble finding the bookstore, but it wasn't what I was looking for. The windows were full of 
crystals, dream-catchers, and books about spiritual healing. I didn't even go inside. Through the glass I 
could see a fifty-year-old woman with long, gray hair worn straight down her back, clad in a dress right 
out of the sixties, smiling welcomingly from behind the counter. I decided that was one conversation I 
could skip. There had to be a normal bookstore in town. 

I meandered through the streets, which were filling up with end-of-the-workday traffic, and hoped I was 
headed toward downtown. I wasn't paying as much attention as I should to where I was going; I was 
wrestling with despair. I was trying so hard not to think about him, and what Angela had said. . . and 
more than anything trying to beat down my hopes for Saturday, fearing a disappointment more painful 
than the rest, when I looked up to see someone's silver Volvo parked along the street and it all came 
crashing down on me. Stupid, unreliable vampire, I thought to myself. 

I stomped along in a southerly direction, toward some glass-fronted shops that looked promising. But 
when I got to them, they were just a repair shop and a vacant space. I still had too much time to go 
looking for Jess and Angela yet, and I definitely needed to get my mood in hand before I met back up 
with them. I ran my fingers through my hair a couple of times and took some deep breaths before I 
continued around the comer. 

I started to realize, as I crossed another road, that I was going the wrong direction. The little foot traffic I 
had seen was going north, and it looked like the buildings here were mostly warehouses. I decided to 
turn east at the next comer, and then loop around after a few blocks and try my luck on a different street 
on my way back to the boardwalk. 

A group of four men turned around the comer I was heading for, dressed too casually to be heading 
home from the office, but they were too grimy to be tourists. As they approached me, I realized they 
weren't too many years older than I was. They were joking loudly among themselves, laughing raucously 
and punching each other's arms. I scooted as far to the inside of the sidewalk as I could to give them 
room, walking swiftly, looking past them to the comer. 

"Hey, there!" one of them called as they passed, and he had to be talking to me since no one else was 
around. I glanced up automatically. Two of them had paused, the other two were slowing. The closest, a 
heavyset, dark-haired man in his early twenties, seemed to be the one who had spoken. He was wearing 
a flannel shirt open over a dirty t-shirt, cut-off jeans, and sandals. He took half a step toward me. 

"Hello," I mumbled, a knee-jerk reaction. Then I quickly looked away and walked faster toward the 
comer. I could hear them laughing at full volume behind me. 

"Hey, wait! " one of them called after me again, but I kept my head down and rounded the comer with a 
sigh of relief . I could still hear them chortling behind me. 



I found myself on a sidewalk leading past the backs of several somber-colored warehouses, each with 
large bay doors for unloading trucks, padlocked for the night. The south side of the street had no 
sidewalk, only a chain-link fence topped with barbed wire protecting some kind of engine parts storage 
yard. I'd wandered far past the part of Port Angeles that I, as a guest, was intended to see. It was getting 
dark, I realized, the clouds finally returning, piling up on the western horizon, creating an early sunset. The 
eastern sky was still clear, but graying, shot through with streaks of pink and orange. I'd left my jacket in 
the car, and a sudden shiver made me cross my arms tightly across my chest. A single van passed me, 
and then the road was empty. 

The sky suddenly darkened further, and, as I looked over my shoulder to glare at the offending cloud, I 
realized with a shock that two men were walking quietly twenty feet behind me. 

They were from the same group I'd passed at the corner, though neither was the dark one who'd spoken 
to me. I turned my head forward at once, quickening my pace. A chill that had nothing to do with the 
weather made me shiver again. My purse was on a shoulder strap and I had it slung across my body, the 
way you were supposed to wear it so it wouldn't get snatched. I knew exactiy where my pepper spray 
was — still in my duffle bag under the bed, never unpacked. I didn't have much money with me, just a 
twenty and some ones, and I thought about "accidentally" dropping my bag and walking away. But a 
small, frightened voice in the back of my mind warned me that they might be something worse than 
thieves. 

I listened intently to their quiet footsteps, which were much too quiet when compared to the boisterous 
noise they'd been making earlier, and it didn't sound like they were speeding up, or getting any closer to 
me. Breathe, I had to remind myself. You don't know they're following you. I continued to walk as 
quickly as I could without actually running, focusing on the right-hand turn that was only a few yards 
away from me now. I could hear them, staying as far back as they'd been before. A blue car turned onto 
the street from the south and drove quickly past me. I thought of jumping out in front of it, but I hesitated, 
inhibited, unsure that I was really being pursued, and then it was too late. 

I reached the comer, but a swift glance revealed that it was only a blind drive to the back of another 
building. I was half-turned in anticipation; I had to hurriedly correct and dash across the narrow drive, 
back to the sidewalk. The street ended at the next comer, where there was a stop sign. I concentrated 
on the faint footsteps behind me, deciding whether or not to run. They sounded farther back, though, and 
I knew they could outrun me in any case. I was sure to trip and go sprawling if I tried to go any faster. 
The footfalls were definitely farther back. I risked a quick glance over my shoulder, and they were maybe 
forty feet back now, I saw with relief. But they were both staring at me. 

It seemed to take forever for me to get to the comer. I kept my pace steady, the men behind me falling 
ever so slightly farther behind with every step. Maybe they realized they had scared me and were sorry. I 
saw two cars going north pass the intersection I was heading for, and I exhaled in relief. There would be 
more people around once I got off this deserted street. I skipped around the comer with a grateful sigh. 

And skidded to a stop. 

The street was lined on both sides by blank, doorless, windowless walls. I could see in the distance, two 
intersections down, streetlamps, cars, and more pedestrians, but they were all too far away. Because 
lounging against the western building, midway down the street, were the other two men from the group, 
both watching with excited smiles as I froze dead on the sidewalk. I realized then that I wasn't being 
followed. 



I was being herded. 



I paused for only a second, but it felt like a very long time. I turned then and darted to the other side of 
the road. I had a sinking feeling that it was a wasted attempt. The footsteps behind me were louder now. 

"There you are!" The booming voice of the stocky, dark-haired man shattered the intense quiet and made 
me jump. In the gathering darkness, it seemed like he was looking past me. 

"Yeah," a voice called loudly from behind me, making me jump again as I tried to hurry down the street. 
"We just took a little detour." 

My steps had to slow now. I was closing the distance between myself and the lounging pair too quickly. I 
had a good loud scream, and I sucked in air, preparing to use it, but my throat was so dry I wasn't sure 
how much volume I could manage. With a quick movement I slipped my purse over my head, gripping 
the strap with one hand, ready to surrender it or use it as weapon as need demanded. 

The thickset man shrugged away from the wall as I warily came to a stop, and walked slowly into the 
street. 

"Stay away from me," I warned in a voice that was supposed to sound strong and fearless. But I was 
right about the dry throat — no volume. 

"Don't be like that, sugar," he called, and the raucous laughter started again behind me. 

I braced myself, feet apart, trying to remember through my panic what littie self-defense I knew. Heel of 
the hand thrust upward, hopefully breaking the nose or shoving it into the brain. Finger through the eye 
socket — try to hook around and pop the eye out. And the standard knee to the groin, of course. That 
same pessimistic voice in my mind spoke up then, reminding me that I probably wouldn't have a chance 
against one of them, and there were four. Shut up! I commanded the voice before terror could 
incapacitate me. I wasn't going out without taking someone with me. I tried to swallow so I could build 
up a decent scream. 

Headlights suddenly flew around the comer, the car almost hitting the stocky one, forcing him to jump 
back toward the sidewalk. I dove into the road — this car was going to stop, or have to hit me. But the 
silver car unexpectedly fishtailed around, skidding to a stop with the passenger door open just a few feet 
from me. 

"Get in," a furious voice commanded. 

It was amazing how instantaneously the choking fear vanished, amazing how suddenly the feeling of 
security washed over me — even before I was off the street — as soon as I heard his voice. I jumped 
into the seat, slamming the door shut behind me. 


"I heard about that." He sounded a bit more composed. 

"You did?" I asked in disbelief, my previous irritation flaring. "If he's paralyzed from the neck down, he 
can't go to the prom, either," I muttered, refining my plan. 

Edward sighed, and finally opened his eyes. 

"Better?" 

"Not really." 

I waited, but he didn't speak again. He leaned his head back against the seat, staring at the ceiling of the 
car. His face was rigid. 

"What's wrong?" My voice came out in a whisper. 



"Sometimes I have a problem with my temper, Bella." He was whispering, too, and as he stared out the 
window, his eyes narrowed into slits. "But it wouldn 't be helpful for me to turn around and hunt down 
those. . . " He didn't finish his sentence, looking away, struggling for a moment to control his anger again. 
"At least," he continued, "that's what I'm trying to convince myself." 

"Oh." The word seemed inadequate, but I couldn't think of a better response. 

We sat in silence again. I glanced at the clock on the dashboard. It was past six-thirty. 

"Jessica and Angela will be worried," I murmured. "I was supposed to meet them." 

He started the engine without another word, turning around smoothly and speeding back toward town. 
We were under the streetlights in no time at all, still going too fast, weaving with ease through the cars 
slowly cruising the boardwalk. He parallel-parked against the curb in a space I would have thought much 
too small for the Volvo, but he slid in effortlessly in one try. I looked out the window to see the lights of 
La Bella Italia, and Jess and Angela just leaving, pacing anxiously away from us. 

"How did you know where. . . ?" I began, but then I just shook my head. I heard the door open and 
turned to see him getting out. 

"What are you doing?" I asked. 

"I'm taking you to dinner." He smiled slightiy, but his eyes were hard. He stepped out of the car and 
slammed the door. I fumbled with my seat belt, and then hurried to get out of the car as well. He was 
waiting for me on the sidewalk. 

He spoke before I could. "Go stop Jessica and Angela before I have to track them down, too. I don't 
think I could restrain myself if I ran into your other friends again." 

I shivered at the threat in his voice. 

" Jess ! Angela ! " I yelled after them, waving when they turned. They rushed back to me, the pronounced 
relief on both their faces simultaneously changing to surprise as they saw who I was standing next to. 
They hesitated a few feet from us. 

"Where have you been?" Jessica's voice was suspicious. 

"I got lost," I admitted sheepishly. "And then I ran into Edward." I gestured toward him. 

"Would it be all right if I joined you?" he asked in his silken, irresistible voice. I could see from their 
staggered expressions that he had never unleashed his talents on them before. 

"Er. . . sure," Jessica breathed. 

"Urn, actually, Bella, we already ate while we were waiting — sorry," Angela confessed. 
"That's fine — I'm not hungry." I shrugged. 

"I think you should eat something." Edward's voice was low, but full of authority. He looked up at Jessica 
and spoke slightiy louder. "Do you mind if I drive Bella home tonight? That way you won't have to wait 
while she eats." 

"Uh, no problem, I guess ..." She bit her lip, trying to figure out from my expression whether that was 
what I wanted. I winked at her. I wanted nothing more than to be alone with my perpetual savior. There 
were so many questions that I couldn't bombard him with till we were by ourselves. 



"Okay." Angela was quicker than Jessica. "See you tomorrow, Bella. . . Edward." She grabbed Jessica's 
hand and pulled her toward the car, which I could see a little ways away, parked across First Street. As 
they got in, Jess turned and waved, her face eager with curiosity. I waved back, waiting for them to drive 
away before I turned to face him. 

"Honestly, I'm not hungry," I insisted, looking up to scrutinize his face. His expression was unreadable. 
"Humor me." 

He walked to the door of the restaurant and held it open with an obstinate expression. Obviously, there 
would be no further discussion. I walked past him into the restaurant with a resigned sigh. 

The restaurant wasn't crowded — it was the off-season in Port Angeles. The host was female, and I 
understood the look in her eyes as she assessed Edward. She welcomed him a little more warmly than 
necessary. I was surprised by how much that bothered me. She was several inches taller than I was, and 
unnaturally blond. 

"A table for two?" His voice was alluring, whether he was aiming for that or not. I saw her eyes flicker to 
me and then away, satisfied by my obvious ordinariness, and by the cautious, no-contact space Edward 
kept between us. She led us to a table big enough for four in the center of the most crowded area of the 
dining floor. 

I was about to sit, but Edward shook his head at me. 

"Perhaps something more private?" he insisted quietly to the host. I wasn't sure, but it looked like he 
smoothly handed her a tip. I'd never seen anyone refuse a table except in old movies. 

"Sure." She sounded as surprised as I was. She turned and led us around a partition to a small ring of 
booths — all of them empty. "How's this?" 

"Perfect." He flashed his gleaming smile, dazing her momentarily. 

"Urn" — she shook her head, bhnking — "your server will be right out." She walked away unsteadily. 
"You really shouldn't do that to people," I criticized. "It's hardly fair." 
"Do what?" 

"Dazzle them like that — she's probably hyperventilating in the kitchen right now." 
He seemed confused. 

"Oh, come on," I said dubiously. "You have to know the effect you have on people." 
He tilted his head to one side, and his eyes were curious. "I dazzle people?" 
"You haven't noticed? Do you think everybody gets their way so easily?" 
He ignored my questions. "Do I dazzle vow?" 
"Frequentiy," I admitted. 

And then our server arrived, her face expectant. The hostess had definitely dished behind the scenes, and 
this new girl didn't look disappointed. She flipped a strand of short black hair behind one ear and smiled 
with unnecessary warmth. 



"Hello. My name is Amber, and I'll be your server tonight. What can I get you to drink?" I didn't miss 
that she was speaking only to him. 

He looked at me. 

"I'll have a Coke." It sounded like a question. 
"Two Cokes," he said. 

"I'll be right back with that," she assured him with another unnecessary smile. But he didn't see it. He was 
watching me. 

"What?" I asked when she left. 

His eyes stayed fixed on my face. "How are you feeling?" 
"I'm fine," I replied, surprised by his intensity. 
"You don't feel dizzy, sick, cold. . . ?" 
"Should I?" 

He chuckled at my puzzled tone. 

"Well, I'm actually waiting for you to go into shock." His face twisted up into that perfect crooked smile. 

"I don't think that will happen," I said after I could breathe again. "I've always been very good at 
repressing unpleasant things." 

"Just the same, I'll feel better when you have some sugar and food in you." 

Right on cue, the waitress appeared with our drinks and a basket of breadsticks. She stood with her 
back to me as she placed them on the table. 

"Are you ready to order?" she asked Edward. 

"Bella?" he asked. She turned unwillingly toward me. 

I picked the first thing I saw on the menu. "Urn. . . I'll have the mushroom ravioli." 
"And you?" She turned back to him with a smile. 
"Nothing for me," he said. Of course not. 

"Let me know if you change your mind." The coy smile was still in place, but he wasn't looking at her, 
and she left dissatisfied. 

"Drink," he ordered. 

I sipped at my soda obediently, and then drank more deeply, surprised by how thirsty I was. I realized I 
had finished the whole thing when he pushed his glass toward me. 

"Thanks," I muttered, still thirsty. The cold from the icy soda was radiating through my chest, and I 
shivered. 

"Are you cold?" 



"It's just the Coke," I explained, shivering again. 
"Don't you have a jacket?" His voice was disapproving. 

"Yes." I looked at the empty bench next to me. "Oh — I left it in Jessica's car," I realized. 

Edward was shrugging out of his jacket. I suddenly realized that I had never once noticed what he was 
wearing — not just tonight, but ever. I just couldn't seem to look away from his face. I made myself look 
now, focusing. He was removing a light beige leather jacket now; underneath he wore an ivory turtleneck 
sweater. It fit him snugly, emphasizing how muscular his chest was. 

He handed me the jacket, interrupting my ogling. 

"Thanks," I said again, sliding my arms into his jacket. It was cold — the way my jacket felt when I first 
picked it up in the morning, hanging in the drafty hallway. I shivered again. It smelled amazing. I inhaled, 
trying to identify the delicious scent. It didn't smell like cologne. The sleeves were much too long; I 
shoved them back so I could free my hands. 

"That color blue looks lovely with your skin," he said, watching me. I was surprised; I looked down, 
flushing, of course. 

He pushed the bread basket toward me. 
"Really, I'm not going into shock," I protested. 

"You should be — a normal person would be. You don't even look shaken." He seemed unsettled. He 
stared into my eyes, and I saw how light his eyes were, lighter than I'd ever seen them, golden 
butterscotch. 

"I feel very safe with you," I confessed, mesmerized into telling the truth again. 
That displeased him; his alabaster brow furrowed. He shook his head, frowning. 
"This is more complicated than I'd planned," he murmured to himself. 

I picked up a breadstick and began nibbling on the end, measuring his expression. I wondered when it 
would be okay to start questioning him. 

"Usually you're in a better mood when your eyes are so light," I commented, trying to distract him from 
whatever thought had left him frowning and somber. 

He stared at me, stunned. "What?" 

"You're always crabbier when your eyes are black — I expect it then," I went on. "I have a theory about 
that." 

His eyes narrowed. "More theories?" 

"Mm-hm." I chewed on a small bite of the bread, trying to look indifferent. 

"I hope you were more creative this time. . . or are you still stealing from comic books?" His faint smile 
was mocking; his eyes were still tight. 

"Well, no, I didn't get it from a comic book, but I didn't come up with it on my own, either," I confessed. 



"And?" he prompted. 

But then the waitress strode around the partition with my food. I realized we'd been unconsciously 
leaning toward each other across the table, because we both straightened up as she approached. She set 
the dish in front of me — it looked pretty good — and turned quickly to Edward. 

"Did you change your mind?" she asked. "Isn't there anything I can get you?" I may have been imagining 
the double meaning in her words. 

"No, thank you, but some more soda would be nice." He gestured with a long white hand to the empty 
cups in front of me. 

"Sure." She removed the empty glasses and walked away. 

"You were saying?" he asked. 

"I'll tell you about it in the car. If . . . " I paused. 

"There are conditions?" He raised one eyebrow, his voice ominous. 

"I do have a few questions, of course." 

"Of course." 

The waitress was back with two more Cokes. She sat them down without a word this time, and left 
again. 

I took a sip. 

"Well, go ahead," he pushed, his voice still hard. 

I started with the most undemanding. Or so I thought. "Why are you in Port Angeles?" 

He looked down, folding his large hands together slowly on the table. His eyes flickered up at me from 
under his lashes, the hint of a smirk on his face. 

"Next." 

"But that's the easiest one," I objected. 
"Next," he repeated. 

I looked down, frustrated. I unrolled my silverware, picked up my fork, and carefully speared a ravioli. I 
put it in my mouth slowly, still looking down, chewing while I thought. The mushrooms were good. I 
swallowed and took another sip of Coke before I looked up. 

"Okay, then." I glared at him, and continued slowly. "Let's say, hypothetically of course, that. . . 
someone. . . could know what people are thinking, read minds, you know — with a few exceptions." 

"Just one exception," he corrected, "hypothetically." 

"All right, with one exception, then." I was thrilled that he was playing along, but I tried to seem casual. 

"How does that work? What are the Umitations? How would. . . that someone. . . find someone else at 
exactly the right time? How would he know she was in trouble?" I wondered if my convoluted questions 
even made sense. 



"Hypothetically?" he asked. 
"Sure." 

"Well, if. . . that someone. . . " 
"Let's call him 'Joe,'" I suggested. 

He smiled wryly. "Joe, then. If Joe had been paying attention, the timing wouldn't have needed to be quite 
so exact." He shook his head, rolling his eyes. "Only you could get into trouble in a town this small. You 
would have devastated their crime rate statistics for a decade, you know." 

"We were speaking of a hypothetical case," I reminded him frostily. 

He laughed at me, his eyes warm. 

"Yes, we were," he agreed. "Shall we call you 'Jane'?" 

"How did you know?" I asked, unable to curb my intensity. I realized I was leaning toward him again. 

He seemed to be wavering, torn by some internal dilemma. His eyes locked with mine, and I guessed he 
was making the decision right then whether or not to simply tell me the truth. 

"You can trust me, you know," I murmured. I reached forward, without thinking, to touch his folded 
hands, but he slid them away minutely, and I pulled my hand back. 

"I don't know if I have a choice anymore." His voice was almost a whisper. "I was wrong — you're much 
more observant than I gave you credit for." 

"I thought you were always right." 

"I used to be." He shook his head again. "I was wrong about you on one other thing, as well. You're not 
a magnet for accidents — that's not a broad enough classification. You are a magnet for trouble. If there 
is anything dangerous within a ten-mile radius, it will invariably find you." 

"And you put yourself into that category?" I guessed. 

His face turned cold, expressionless. "Unequivocally." 

I stretched my hand across the table again — ignoring him when he pulled back slightly once more — to 
touch the back of his hand shyly with my fingertips. His skin was cold and hard, like a stone. 

"Thank you." My voice was fervent with gratitude. "That's twice now." 

His face softened. "Let's not try for three, agreed?" 

I scowled, but nodded. He moved his hand out from under mine, placing both of his under the table. But 
he leaned toward me. 

"I followed you to Port Angeles," he admitted, speaking in a rush. "I've never tried to keep a specific 
person alive before, and it's much more troublesome than I would have believed. But that's probably just 
because it's you. Ordinary people seem to make it through the day without so many catastrophes." He 
paused. I wondered if it should bother me that he was following me; instead I felt a strange surge of 
pleasure. He stared, maybe wondering why my lips were curving into an involuntary smile. 



"Did you ever think that maybe my number was up the first time, with the van, and that you've been 
interfering with fate?" I speculated, distracting myself. 

"That wasn't the first time," he said, and his voice was hard to hear. I stared at him in amazement, but he 
was looking down. "Your number was up the first time I met you." 

I felt a spasm of fear at his words, and the abrupt memory of his violent black glare that first day. . . but 
the overwhelming sense of safety I felt in his presence stifled it. By the time he looked up to read my 
eyes, there was no trace of fear in them. 

"You remember?" he asked, his angel's face grave. 

"Yes." I was calm. 

"And yet here you sit." There was a trace of disbelief in his voice; he raised one eyebrow. 

"Yes, here I sit. . . because of you." I paused. "Because somehow you knew how to find me today. . . ?" I 
prompted. 

He pressed his lips together, staring at me through narrowed eyes, deciding again. His eyes flashed down 
to my full plate, and then back to me. 

"You eat, I'll talk," he bargained. 

I quickly scooped up another ravioli and popped it in my mouth. 

"It's harder than it should be — keeping track of you. Usually I can find someone very easily, once I've 
heard their mind before." He looked at me anxiously, and I realized I had frozen. I made myself swallow, 
then stabbed another ravioli and tossed it in. 

"I was keeping tabs on Jessica, not carefully — like I said, only you could find trouble in Port Angeles — 
and at first I didn't notice when you took off on your own. Then, when I realized that you weren't with 
her anymore, I went looking for you at the bookstore I saw in her head. I could tell that you hadn't gone 
in, and that you'd gone south. . . and I knew you would have to turn around soon. So I was just waiting 
for you, randomly searching through the thoughts of people on the street — to see if anyone had noticed 
you so I would know where you were. I had no reason to be worried. . . but I was strangely anxious. . . " 
He was lost in thought, staring past me, seeing things I couldn't imagine. 

"I started to drive in circles, still. . . Ustening. The sun was finally setting, and I was about to get out and 
follow you on foot. And then — " He stopped, clenching his teeth together in sudden fury. He made an 
effort to calm himself. 

"Then what?" I whispered. He continued to stare over my head. 

"I heard what they were thinking," he growled, his upper Up curling slightly back over his teeth. "I saw 
your face in his mind." He suddenly leaned forward, one elbow appearing on the table, his hand covering 
his eyes. The movement was so swift it startled me. 

"It was very. . . hard — you can't imagine how hard — for me to simply take you away, and leave 
them. . . alive." His voice was muffled by his arm. "I could have let you go with Jessica and Angela, but I 
was afraid if you left me alone, I would go looking for them," he admitted in a whisper. 

I sat quietly, dazed, my thoughts incoherent. My hands were folded in my lap, and I was leaning weakly 
against the back of the seat. He still had his face in his hand, and he was as still as if he'd been carved 



from the stone his skin resembled. 

Finally he looked up, his eyes seeking mine, full of his own questions. 
"Are you ready to go home?" he asked. 

"I'm ready to leave," I qualified, overly grateful that we had the hour-long ride home together. I wasn't 
ready to say goodbye to him. 

The waitress appeared as if she'd been called. Or watching. 
"How are we doing?" she asked Edward. 

"We're ready for the check, thank you." His voice was quiet, rougher, still reflecting the strain of our 
conversation. It seemed to muddle her. He looked up, waiting. 

"S-sure," she stuttered. "Here you go." She pulled a small leather folder from the front pocket of her 
black apron and handed it to him. 

There was a bill in his hand already. He slipped it into the folder and handed it right back to her. 

"No change." He smiled. Then he stood up, and I scrambled awkwardly to my feet. 

She smiled invitingly at him again. "You have a nice evening." 

He didn't look away from me as he thanked her. I suppressed a smile. 

He walked close beside me to the door, still careful not to touch me. I remembered what Jessica had 
said about her relationship with Mike, how they were almost to the first-kiss stage. I sighed. Edward 
seemed to hear me, and he looked down curiously. I looked at the sidewalk, grateful that he didn't seem 
to be able to know what I was thinking. 

He opened the passenger door, holding it for me as I stepped in, shutting it softly behind me. I watched 
him walk around the front of the car, amazed, yet again, by how graceful he was. I probably should have 
been used to that by now — but I wasn't. I had a feeling Edward wasn't the kind of person anyone got 
used to. 

Once inside the car, he started the engine and turned the heater on high. It had gotten very cold, and I 
guessed the good weather was at an end. I was warm in his jacket, though, breathing in the scent of it 
when I thought he couldn't see. 

Edward pulled out through the traffic, apparently without a glance, flipping around to head toward the 
freeway. 

"Now," he said significantly, "it's your turn." 
9. THEORY 



"Can I ask just one more?" I pleaded as Edward accelerated much too quickly down the quiet street. He 
didn't seem to be paying any attention to the road. 



He sighed. 



"One," he agreed. His lips pressed together into a cautious line. 

"Well. . . you said you knew I hadn't gone into the bookstore, and that I had gone south. I was just 
wondering how you knew that." 

He looked away, deliberating. 

"I thought we were past all the evasiveness," I grumbled. 
He almost smiled. 

"Fine, then. I followed your scent." He looked at the road, giving me time to compose my face. I couldn't 
think of an acceptable response to that, but I filed it carefully away for future study. I tried to refocus. I 
wasn't ready to let him be finished, now that he was finally explaining things. 

"And then you didn't answer one of my first questions. . ." I stalled. 

He looked at me with disapproval. "Which one?" 

"How does it work — the mind-reading thing? Can you read anybody's mind, anywhere? How do you 
do it? Can the rest of your family. . . ?" I felt silly, asking for clarification on make-believe. 

"That's more than one," he pointed out. I simply intertwined my fingers and gazed at him, waiting. 

"No, it's just me. And I can't hear anyone, anywhere. I have to be fairly close. The more farniliar 
someone's. . . 'voice' is, the farther away I can hear them. But still, no more than a few miles." He paused 
thoughtfully. "It's a little like being in a huge hall filled with people, everyone talking at once. It's just a hum 
— a buzzing of voices in the background. Until I focus on one voice, and then what they're thinking is 
clear. 

"Most of the time I tune it all out — it can be very distracting. And then it's easier to seem normal" — 
he frowned as he said the word — "when I'm not accidentally answering someone's thoughts rather than 
their words." 

"Why do you think you can't hear me?" I asked curiously. 
He looked at me, his eyes enigmatic. 

"I don't know," he murmured. "The only guess I have is that maybe your mind doesn't work the same 
way the rest of theirs do. Like your thoughts are on the AM frequency and I'm only getting FM." He 
grinned at me, suddenly amused. 

"My mind doesn't work right? I'm a freak?" The words bothered me more than they should — probably 
because his speculation hit home. I'd always suspected as much, and it embarrassed me to have it 
confirmed. 

"I hear voices in my mind and you're worried that you 're the freak," he laughed. "Don't worry, it's just a 
theory. . ." His face tightened. "Which brings us back to you." 

I sighed. How to begin? 

"Aren't we past all the evasions now?" he reminded me softly. 

I looked away from his face for the first time, trying to find words. I happened to notice the speedometer. 



"Holy crow!" I shouted. "Slow down!" 

"What's wrong?" He was startled. But the car didn't decelerate. 

"You're going a hundred miles an hour!" I was still shouting. I shot a panicky glance out the window, but 
it was too dark to see much. The road was only visible in the long patch of bluish brightness from the 
headlights. The forest along both sides of the road was like a black wall — as hard as a wall of steel if 
we veered off the road at this speed. 

"Relax, Bella." He rolled his eyes, still not slowing. 

"Are you trying to kill us?" I demanded. 

"We're not going to crash." 

I tried to modulate my voice. "Why are you in such a hurry?" 
"I always drive like this." He turned to smile crookedly at me. 
"Keep your eyes on the road!" 

"I've never been in an accident, Bella — I've never even gotten a ticket." He grinned and tapped his 
forehead. "Built-in radar detector." 

"Very funny." I fumed. "Charlie's a cop, remember? I was raised to abide by traffic laws. Besides, if you 
turn us into a Volvo pretzel around a tree trunk, you can probably just walk away." 

"Probably," he agreed with a short, hard laugh. "But you can't." He sighed, and I watched with relief as 
the needle gradually drifted toward eighty. "Happy?" 

"Almost." 

"I hate driving slow," he muttered. 
"This is slow?" 

"Enough commentary on my driving," he snapped. "I'm still waiting for your latest theory." 

I bit my hp. He looked down at me, his honey eyes unexpectedly gentle. 

"I won't laugh," he promised. 

"I'm more afraid that you'll be angry with me." 

"Is it that bad?" 

"Pretty much, yeah." 

He waited. I was looking down at my hands, so I couldn't see his expression. 

"Go ahead." His voice was calm. 

"I don't know how to start," I admitted. 

"Why don't you start at the beginning. . . you said you didn't come up with this on your own." 



"No." 

"What got you started — a book? A movie?" he probed. 

"No — it was Saturday, at the beach." I risked a glance up at his face. He looked puzzled. 

"I ran into an old family friend — Jacob Black," I continued. "His dad and Charlie have been friends since 
I was a baby." 

He still looked confused. 

"His dad is one of the Quileute elders." I watched him carefully. His confused expression froze in place. 
"We went for a walk — " I edited all my scheming out of the story " — and he was telling me some old 
legends — trying to scare me, I think. He told me one. . . " I hesitated. 

"Go on," he said. 

"About vampires." I realized I was whispering. I couldn't look at his face now. But I saw his knuckles 
tighten convulsively on the wheel. 

"And you immediately thought of me?" Still calm. 

"No. He. . . mentioned your family." 

He was silent, staring at the road. 

I was worried suddenly, worried about protecting Jacob. 

"He just thought it was a silly superstition," I said quickly. "He didn't expect me to think anything of it." It 
didn't seem like enough; I had to confess. "It was my fault, I forced him to tell me." 

"Why?" 

"Lauren said something about you — she was trying to provoke me. And an older boy from the tribe 
said your family didn't come to the reservation, only it sounded like he meant something different. So I 
got Jacob alone and I tricked it out of him," I admitted, hanging my head. 

He startled me by laughing. I glared up at him. He was laughing, but his eyes were fierce, staring ahead. 
"Tricked him how?" he asked. 

"I tried to flirt — it worked better than I thought it would." Disbelief colored my tone as I remembered. 

"I'd like to have seen that." He chuckled darkly. "And you accused me of dazzling people — poor Jacob 
Black." 

I blushed and looked out my window into the night. 
"What did you do then?" he asked after a minute. 
"I did some research on the Internet." 

"And did that convince you?" His voice sounded barely interested. But his hands were clamped hard 
onto the steering wheel. 

"No. Nothing fit. Most of it was kind of silly. And then. . . " I stopped. 



"What?" 

"I decided it didn't matter," I whispered. 

"It didn't matter!" His tone made me look up — I had finally broken through his carefully composed 
mask. His face was incredulous, with just a hint of the anger I'd feared. 

"No," I said softly. "It doesn't matter to me what you are." 

A hard, mocking edge entered his voice. "You don't care if I'm a monster? If I'm not human !" 
"No." 

He was silent, staring straight ahead again. His face was bleak and cold. 
"You're angry," I sighed. "I shouldn't have said anything." 

"No," he said, but his tone was as hard as his face. "I'd rather know what you're thinking — even if what 
you're tMnking is insane." 

"So I'm wrong again?" I challenged. 

"That's not what I was referring to. It doesn't matter'!" he quoted, gritting his teeth together. 
"I'm right?" I gasped. 
"Does it matter?' 
I took a deep breath. 

"Not really." I paused. "But I am curious." My voice, at least, was composed. 

He was suddenly resigned. "What are you curious about?" 

"How old are you?" 

"Seventeen," he answered promptly. 

"And how long have you been seventeen?" 

His lips twitched as he stared at the road. "A while," he admitted at last. 

"Okay." I smiled, pleased that he was still being honest with me. He stared down at me with watchful 
eyes, much as he had before, when he was worried I would go into shock. I smiled wider in 
encouragement, and he frowned. 

"Don't laugh — but how can you come out during the daytime?" 
He laughed anyway. "Myth." 
"Burned by the sun?" 
"Myth." 

"Sleeping in coffins?" 

"Myth." He hesitated for a moment, and a peculiar tone entered his voice. "I can't sleep." 



It took me a minute to absorb that. "At all?" 

"Never," he said, his voice nearly inaudible. He turned to look at me with a wistful expression. The 
golden eyes held mine, and I lost my train of thought. I stared at him until he looked away. 

"You haven't asked me the most important question yet." His voice was hard now, and when he looked 
at me again his eyes were cold. 

I blinked, still dazed. "Which one is that?" 

"You aren't concerned about my diet?" he asked sarcastically. 

"Oh," I murmured, "that." 

"Yes, that." His voice was bleak. "Don't you want to know if I drink blood?" 
I flinched. "Well, Jacob said something about that." 
"What did Jacob say?" he asked flatly. 

"He said you didn't. . . hunt people. He said your family wasn't supposed to be dangerous because you 
only hunted animals." 

"He said we weren't dangerous?" His voice was deeply skeptical. 

"Not exactly. He said you weren't supposed to be dangerous. But the Quileutes still didn't want you on 
their land, just in case." 

He looked forward, but I couldn't tell if he was watching the road or not. 

"So was he right? About not hunting people?" I tried to keep my voice as even as possible. 

"The Quileutes have a long memory," he whispered. 

I took it as a confirmation. 

"Don't let that make you complacent, though," he warned me. "They're right to keep their distance from 
us. We are still dangerous." 

"I don't understand." 

"We try," he explained slowly. "We're usually very good at what we do. Sometimes we make mistakes. 
Me, for example, allowing myself to be alone with you." 

"This is a mistake?" I heard the sadness in my voice, but I didn't know if he could as well. 
"A very dangerous one," he murmured. 

We were both silent then. I watched the headlights twist with the curves of the road. They moved too 
fast; it didn't look real, it looked like a video game. I was aware of the time slipping away so quickly, like 
the black road beneath us, and I was hideously afraid that I would never have another chance to be with 
him like this again — openly, the walls between us gone for once. His words hinted at an end, and I 
recoiled from the idea. I couldn't waste one minute I had with him. 

"Tell me more," I asked desperately, not caring what he said, just so I could hear his voice again. 



He looked at me quickly, startled by the change in my tone. "What more do you want to know?" 

"Tell me why you hunt animals instead of people," I suggested, my voice still tinged with desperation. I 
realized my eyes were wet, and I fought against the grief that was trying to overpower me. 

"I don't want to be a monster." His voice was very low. 

"But animals aren't enough?" 

He paused. "I can't be sure, of course, but I'd compare it to living on torn and soy milk; we call ourselves 
vegetarians, our little inside joke. It doesn't completely satiate the hunger — or rather thirst. But it keens 
us strong enough to resist. Most of the time." His tone turned ominous. "Sometimes it's more difficult than 
others." 

"Is it very difficult for you now?" I asked. 
He sighed. "Yes." 

"But you're not hungry now," I said confidentiy — stating, not asking. 
"Why do you think that?" 

"Your eyes. I told you I had a theory. I've noticed that people — men in particular — are crabbier when 
they're hungry." 

He chuckled. "You are observant, aren't you?" 

I didn't answer; I just listened to the sound of his laugh, committing it to memory. 

"Were you hunting this weekend, with Emmett?" I asked when it was quiet again. 

"Yes." He paused for a second, as if deciding whether or not to say something. "I didn't want to leave, 
but it was necessary. It's a bit easier to be around you when I'm not thirsty." 

"Why didn't you want to leave?" 

"It makes me. . . anxious. . . to be away from you." His eyes were gentle but intense, and they seemed to 
be making my bones turn soft. "I wasn't joking when I asked you to try not to fall in the ocean or get run 
over last Thursday. I was distracted all weekend, worrying about you. And after what happened tonight, 
I'm surprised that you did make it through a whole weekend unscathed." He shook his head, and then 
seemed to remember something. "Well, not totally unscathed." 

"What?" 

"Your hands," he reminded me. I looked down at my palms, at the almost-healed scrapes across the 
heels of my hands. His eyes missed nothing. 

"I fell," I sighed. 

"That's what I thought." His lips curved up at the comers. "I suppose, being you, it could have been much 
worse — and that possibility tormented me the entire time I was away. It was a very long three days. I 
really got on Emmett's nerves." He smiled ruefully at me. 



"Three days? Didn't you just get back today?" 



"No, we got back Sunday." 

"Then why weren't any of you in school?" I was frustrated, almost angry as I thought of how much 
disappointment I had suffered because of his absence. 

"Well, you asked if the sun hurt me, and it doesn't. But I can't go out in the sunlight — at least, not where 
anyone can see." 

"Why?" 

"I'll show you sometime," he promised. 
I thought about it for a moment. 
"You might have called me," I decided. 
He was puzzled. "But I knew you were safe." 

"But / didn't know where you were. I — " I hesitated, dropping my eyes. 
"What?" His velvety voice was compelling. 

"I didn't like it. Not seeing you. It makes me anxious, too." I blushed to be saying this out loud. 

He was quiet. I glanced up, apprehensive, and saw that his expression was pained. 

"Ah," he groaned quietly. "This is wrong." 

I couldn't understand his response. "What did I say?" 

"Don't you see, Bella? It's one thing for me to make myself miserable, but a wholly other thing for you to 
be so involved." He turned his anguished eyes to the road, his words flowing almost too fast for me to 
understand. "I don't want to hear that you feel that way." His voice was low but urgent. His words cut 
me. "It's wrong. It's not safe. I'm dangerous, Bella — please, grasp that." 

"No." I tried very hard not to look like a sulky child. 

"I'm serious," he growled. 

"So am 1. 1 told you, it doesn't matter what you are. It's too late." 
His voice whipped out, low and harsh. "Never say that." 

I bit my hp and was glad he couldn't know how much that hurt. I stared out at the road. We must be 
close now. He was driving much too fast. 

"What are you thinking?" he asked, his voice still raw. I just shook my head, not sure if I could speak. I 
could feel his gaze on my face, but I kept my eyes forward. 

"Are you crying?" He sounded appalled. I hadn't realized the moisture in my eyes had brimmed over. I 
quickly rubbed my hand across my cheek, and sure enough, traitor tears were there, betraying me. 

"No," I said, but my voice cracked. 

I saw him reach toward me hesitantiy with his right hand, but then he stopped and placed it slowly back 
on the steering wheel. 



"I'm sorry." His voice burned with regret. I knew he wasn't just apologizing for the words that had upset 
me. 

The darkness slipped by us in silence. 

"Tell me something," he asked after another minute, and I could hear him struggle to use a lighter tone. 
"Yes?" 

"What were you thinking tonight, just before I came around the comer? I couldn't understand your 
expression — you didn't look that scared, you looked like you were concentrating very hard on 
something." 

"I was trying to remember how to incapacitate an attacker — you know, self-defense. I was going to 
smash his nose into his brain." I thought of the dark-haired man with a surge of hate. 

"You were going to fight them?" This upset him. "Didn't you think about running?" 

"I fall down a lot when I run," I admitted. 

"What about screaming for help?" 

"I was getting to that part." 

He shook his head. "You were right — I'm definitely fighting fate trying to keep you alive." 

I sighed. We were slowing, passing into the boundaries of Forks. It had taken less than twenty minutes. 

"Will I see you tomorrow?" I demanded. 

"Yes — I have a paper due, too." He smiled. "I'll save you a seat at lunch." 

It was silly, after everything we'd been through tonight, how that little promise sent flutters through my 
stomach, and made me unable to speak. 

We were in front of Charlie's house. The lights were on, my truck in its place, everything utterly normal. It 
was like waking from a dream. He stopped the car, but I didn't move. 

"Do you promise to be there tomorrow?" 

"I promise." 

I considered that for a moment, then nodded. I pulled his jacket off, taking one last whiff. 
"You can keep it — you don't have a jacket for tomorrow," he reminded me. 
I handed it back to him. "I don't want to have to explain to Charlie." 
"Oh, right." He grinned. 

I hesitated, my hand on the door handle, trying to prolong the moment. 
"Bella?" he asked in a different tone — serious, but hesitant. 
"Yes?" I turned back to him too eagerly. 



"Will you promise me something?" 

"Yes," I said, and instantly regretted my unconditional agreement. What if he asked me to stay away from 
him? I couldn't keep that promise. 

"Don't go into the woods alone." 

I stared at him in blank confusion. "Why?" 

He frowned, and his eyes were tight as he stared past me out the window. 
"I'm not always the most dangerous thing out there. Let's leave it at that." 

I shuddered slightly at the sudden bleakness in his voice, but I was relieved. This, at least, was an easy 
promise to honor. "Whatever you say." 

"I'll see you tomorrow," he sighed, and I knew he wanted me to leave now. 
"Tomorrow, then." I opened the door unwillingly. 

"Bella?" I turned and he was leaning toward me, his pale, glorious face just inches from mine. My heart 
stopped beating. 

"Sleep well," he said. His breath blew in my face, stunning me. It was the same exquisite scent that clung 
to his jacket, but in a more concentrated form. I blinked, thoroughly dazed. He leaned away. 

I was unable to move until my brain had somewhat unscrambled itself. Then I stepped out of the car 
awkwardly, having to use the frame for support. I thought I heard him chuckle, but the sound was too 
quiet for me to be certain. 

He waited till I had stumbled to the front door, and then I heard his engine quietiy rev. I turned to watch 
the silver car disappear around the corner. I realized it was very cold. 

I reached for the key mechanically, unlocked the door, and stepped inside. 

Charlie called from the living room. "Bella?" 

"Yeah, Dad, it's me." I walked in to see him. He was watching a baseball game. 
"You're home early." 
"Am I?" I was surprised. 

"It's not even eight yet," he told me. "Did you girls have fun?" 

"Yeah — it was lots of fun." My head was spinning as I tried to remember all the way back to the girls' 
night out I had planned. "They both found dresses." 

"Are you all right?" 

"I'm just tired. I did a lot of walking." 

"Well, maybe you should go he down." He sounded concerned. I wondered what my face looked like. 
"I'm just going to call Jessica first." 



"Weren't you just with her?" he asked, surprised. 



"Yes — but I left my jacket in her car. I want to make sure she brings it tomorrow." 
"Well, give her a chance to get home first." 
"Right," I agreed. 

I went to the kitchen and fell, exhausted, into a chair. I was really feeling dizzy now. I wondered if I was 
going to go into shock after all. Get a grip, I told myself. 

The phone rang suddenly, startling me. I yanked it off the hook. 

"Hello?" I asked breathlessly. 

"Bella?" 

"Hey, Jess, I was just going to call you." 

"You made it home?" Her voice was relieved. . . and surprised. 

"Yes. I left my jacket in your car — could you bring it to me tomorrow?" 

"Sure. But tell me what happened!" she demanded. 

"Um, tomorrow — in Trig, okay?" 

She caught on quickly. "Oh, is your dad there?" 

"Yes, that's right." 

"Okay, I'll talk to you tomorrow, then. Bye!" I could hear the impatience in her voice. 
"Bye, Jess." 

I walked up the stairs slowly, a heavy stupor clouding my mind. I went through the motions of getting 
ready for bed without paying any attention to what I was doing. It wasn't until I was in the shower — the 
water too hot, burning my skin — that I realized I was freezing. I shuddered violently for several minutes 
before the steaming spray could finally relax my rigid muscles. Then I stood in the shower, too tired to 
move, until the hot water began to run out. 

I stumbled out, wrapping myself securely in a towel, trying to hold the heat from the water in so the 
aching shivers wouldn't return. I dressed for bed swiftly and climbed under my quilt, curling into a ball, 
hugging myself to keep warm. A few small shudders trembled through me. 

My mind still swirled dizzily, full of images I couldn't understand, and some I fought to repress. Nothing 
seemed clear at first, but as I fell gradually closer to unconsciousness, a few certainties became evident. 

About three things I was absolutely positive. First, Edward was a vampire. Second, there was part of 
him — and I didn't know how potent that part might be — that thirsted for my blood. And third, I was 
unconditionally and irrevocably in love with him. 



10. INTERROGATIONS 



It was very hard, in the morning, to argue with the part of me that was sure last night was a dream. Logic 
wasn't on my side, or common sense. I clung to the parts I couldn't have imagined — like his smell. I was 
sure I could never have dreamed that up on my own. 

It was foggy and dark outside my window, absolutely perfect. He had no reason not to be in school 
today. I dressed in my heavy clothes, remembering I didn't have a jacket. Further proof that my memory 
was real. 

When I got downstairs, Charlie was gone again — I was running later than I'd realized. I swallowed a 
granola bar in three bites, chased it down with milk straight from the carton, and then hurried out the 
door. Hopefully the rain would hold off until I could find Jessica. 

It was unusually foggy; the air was almost smoky with it. The mist was ice cold where it clung to the 
exposed skin on my face and neck. I couldn't wait to get the heat going in my truck. It was such a thick 
fog that I was a few feet down the driveway before I realized there was a car in it: a silver car. My heart 
thudded, stuttered, and then picked up again in double time. 

I didn't see where he came from, but suddenly he was there, pulling the door open for me. 

"Do you want to ride with me today?" he asked, amused by my expression as he caught me by surprise 
yet again. There was uncertainty in his voice. He was really giving me a choice — I was free to refuse, 
and part of him hoped for that. It was a vain hope. 

"Yes, thank you," I said, trying to keep my voice calm. As I stepped into the warm car, I noticed his tan 
jacket was slung over the headrest of the passenger seat. The door closed behind me, and, sooner than 
should be possible, he was sitting next to me, starting the car. 

"I brought the jacket for you. I didn't want you to get sick or something." His voice was guarded. I 
noticed that he wore no jacket himself, just a light gray knit V-neck shirt with long sleeves. Again, the 
fabric clung to his perfectly muscled chest. It was a colossal tribute to his face that it kept my eyes away 
from his body. 

"I'm not quite that delicate," I said, but I pulled the jacket onto my lap, pushing my arms through the 
too-long sleeves, curious to see if the scent could possibly be as good as I remembered. It was better. 

"Aren't you?" he contradicted in a voice so low I wasn't sure if he meant for me to hear. 

We drove through the fog-shrouded streets, always too fast, feeling awkward. I was, at least. Last night 
all the walls were down. . . almost all. I didn't know if we were still being as candid today. It left me 
tongue-tied. I waited for him to speak. 

He turned to smirk at me. "What, no twenty questions today?" 

"Do my questions bother you?" I asked, relieved. 

"Not as much as your reactions do." He looked like he was joking, but I couldn't be sure. 
I frowned. "Do I react badly?" 

"No, that's the problem. You take everything so coolly — it's unnatural. It makes me wonder what you're 
really tliinking." 

"I always tell you what I'm really thinking." 



"You edit," he accused. 

"Not very much." 

"Enough to drive me insane." 

"You don't want to hear it," I mumbled, almost whispered. As soon as the words were out, I regretted 
them. The pain in my voice was very faint; I could only hope he hadn't noticed it. 

He didn't respond, and I wondered if I had ruined the mood. His face was unreadable as we drove into 
the school parking lot. Something occurred to me belatedly. 

"Where's the rest of your family?" I asked — more than glad to be alone with him, but remembering that 
his car was usually full. 

"They took Rosalie's car." He shrugged as he parked next to a glossy red convertible with the top up. 
"Ostentatious, isn't it?" 

"Urn, wow," I breathed. "If she has that, why does she ride with you?" 
"Like I said, it's ostentatious. We try to blend in." 

"You don't succeed." I laughed and shook my head as we got out of the car. I wasn't late anymore; his 
lunatic driving had gotten me to school in plenty of time. "So why did Rosalie drive today if it's more 
conspicuous?" 

"Hadn't you noticed? I'm breaking all the rules now." He met me at the front of the car, staying very 
close to my side as we walked onto campus. I wanted to close that little distance, to reach out and touch 
him, but I was afraid he wouldn't like me to. 

"Why do you have cars like that at all?" I wondered aloud. "If you're looking for privacy?" 
"An indulgence," he admitted with an impish smile. "We all like to drive fast." 
"Figures," I muttered under my breath. 

Under the shelter of the cafeteria roofs overhang, Jessica was waiting, her eyes about to bug out of their 
sockets. Over her arm, bless her, was my jacket. 

"Hey, Jessica," I said when we were a few feet away. "Thanks for remembering." She handed me my 
jacket without speaking. 

"Good morning, Jessica," Edward said politely. It wasn't really his fault that his voice was so irresistible. 
Or what his eyes were capable of. 

"Er. . . hi." She shifted her wide eyes to me, trying to gather her jumbled thoughts. "I guess I'll see you in 
Trig." She gave me a meaningful look, and I suppressed a sigh. What on earth was I going to tell her? 

"Yeah, I'll see you then." 

She walked away, pausing twice to peek back over her shoulder at us. 
"What are you going to tell her?" Edward murmured. 
"Hey, I thought you couldn't read my mind!" I hissed. 



"I can't," he said, startled. Then understanding brightened his eyes. "However, I can read hers — she'll be 
waiting to ambush you in class." 

I groaned as I pulled off his jacket and handed it to him, replacing it with my own. He folded it over his 
arm. 

"So what are you going to tell her?" 
"A little help?" I pleaded. "What does she want to know?" 
He shook his head, grinning wickedly. "That's not fair." 
"No, you not sharing what you know — now that's not fair." 

He deliberated for a moment as we walked. We stopped outside the door to my first class. 

"She wants to know if we're secretly dating. And she wants to know how you feel about me," he finally 
said. 

"Yikes. What should I say?" I tried to keep my expression very innocent. People were passing us on their 
way to class, probably staring, but I was barely aware of them. 

"Hmmm." He paused to catch a stray lock of hair that was escaping the twist on my neck and wound it 
back into place. My heart spluttered hyperactively. "I suppose you could say yes to the first. . . if you 
don't mind — it's easier than any other explanation." 

"I don't mind," I said in a faint voice. 

"And as for her other question. . . well, I'll be listening to hear the answer to that one myself." One side of 
his mouth pulled up into my favorite uneven smile. I couldn't catch my breath soon enough to respond to 
that remark. He turned and walked away. 

"I'll see you at lunch," he called over his shoulder. Three people walking in the door stopped to stare at 
me. 

I hurried into class, flushed and irritated. He was such a cheater. Now I was even more worried about 
what I was going to say to Jessica. I sat in my usual seat, slamming my bag down in aggravation. 

"Morning, Bella," Mike said from the seat next to me. I looked up to see an odd, almost resigned look on 
his face. "How was Port Angeles?" 

"It was. . . " There was no honest way to sum it up. "Great," I finished lamely. "Jessica got a really cute 
dress." 

"Did she say anything about Monday night?" he asked, his eyes brightening. I smiled at the turn the 
conversation had taken. 

"She said she had a really good time," I assured him. 
"She did?" he said eagerly. 
"Most definitely." 

Mr. Mason called the class to order then, asking us to turn in our papers. English and then Government 
passed in a blur, while I worried about how to explain things to Jessica and agonized over whether 



Edward would really be listening to what I said through the medium of Jess's thoughts. How very 
inconvenient his little talent could be — when it wasn't saving my life. 

The fog had almost dissolved by the end of the second hour, but the day was still dark with low, 
oppressing clouds. I smiled up at the sky. 

Edward was right, of course. When I walked into Trig Jessica was sitting in the back row, nearly 
bouncing off her seat in agitation. I reluctantly went to sit by her, trying to convince myself it would be 
better to get it over with as soon as possible. 

"Tell me everything!" she commanded before I was in the seat. 

"What do you want to know?" I hedged. 

"What happened last night?" 

"He bought me dinner, and then he drove me home." 

She glared at me, her expression stiff with skepticism. "How did you get home so fast?" 

"He drives like a maniac. It was terrifying." I hoped he heard that. 

"Was it like a date — did you tell him to meet you there?" 

I hadn't thought of that. "No — I was very surprised to see him there." 

Her lips puckered in disappointment at the transparent honesty in my voice. 

"But he picked you up for school today?" she probed. 

"Yes — that was a surprise, too. He noticed I didn't have a jacket last night," I explained. 
"So are you going out again?" 

"He offered to drive me to Seattle Saturday because he thinks toy truck isn't up to it — does that count?" 
"Yes." She nodded. 
"Well, then, yes." 

"W-o-w." She exaggerated the word into three syllables. "Edward Cullen." 
"I know," I agreed. "Wow" didn't even cover it. 

"Wait!" Her hands flew up, palms toward me like she was stopping traffic. "Has he kissed you?" 

"No," I mumbled. "It's not like that." 

She looked disappointed. I'm sure I did, too. 

"Do you think Saturday. . . ?" She raised her eyebrows. 

"I really doubt it." The discontent in my voice was poorly disguised. 

"What did you talk about?" She pushed for more information in a whisper. Class had started but Mr. 
Varner wasn't paying close attention and we weren't the only ones still talking. 



"I don't know, Jess, lots of stuff," I whispered back. "We talked about the English essay a little." A very, 
very little. I think he mentioned it in passing. 

"Please, Bella," she begged. "Give me some details." 

"Well. . . okay, I've got one. You should have seen the waitress flirting with him — it was over the top. 
But he didn't pay any attention to her at all." Let him make what he could of that. 

"That's a good sign," she nodded. "Was she pretty?" 

"Very — and probably nineteen or twenty." 

"Even better. He must like you." 

"I think so, but it's hard to tell. He's always so cryptic," I threw in for his benefit, sighing. 
"I don't know how you're brave enough to be alone with him," she breathed. 
"Why?" I was shocked, but she didn't understand my reaction. 

"He's so. . . intimidating. I wouldn't know what to say to him." She made a face, probably remembering 
this morning or last night, when he'd turned the overwhelming force of his eyes on her. 

"I do have some trouble with incoherency when I'm around him," I admitted. 

"Oh well. He is unbelievably gorgeous." Jessica shrugged as if this excused any flaws. Which, in her 
book, it probably did. 

"There's a lot more to him than that." 

"Really? Like what?" 

I wished I had let it go. Almost as much as I was hoping he'd been kidding about hstening in. 

"I can't explain it right. . . but he's even more unbelievable behind the face." The vampire who wanted to 
be good — who ran around saving people's lives so he wouldn't be a monster. . . I stared toward the 
front of the room. 

"Is that possible!" She giggled. 

I ignored her, trying to look like I was paying attention to Mr. Varner. 
"So you like him, then?" She wasn't about to give up. 
"Yes," I said curtly. 

"I mean, do you really like him?" she urged. 

"Yes," I said again, blushing. I hoped that detail wouldn't register in her thoughts. 

She'd had enough with the single syllable answers. "How much do you like him?" 

"Too much," I whispered back. "More than he likes me. But I don't see how I can help that." I sighed, 
one blush blending into the next. 

Then, thankfully, Mr. Varner called on Jessica for an answer. 



She didn't get a chance to start on the subject again during class, and as soon as the bell rang, I took 
evasive action. 

"In English, Mike asked me if you said anything about Monday night," I told her. 
"You're kidding! What did you say?!" she gasped, completely sidetracked. 
"I told him you said you had a lot of fun — he looked pleased." 
"Tell me exactly what he said, and your exact answer!" 

We spent the rest of the walk dissecting sentence structures and most of Spanish on a minute description 
of Mike's facial expressions. I wouldn't have helped draw it out for as long as I did if I wasn't worried 
about the subject returning to me. 

And then the bell rang for lunch. As I jumped up out of my seat, shoving my books roughly in my bag, 
my uplifted expression must have tipped Jessica off. 

"You're not sitting with us today, are you?" she guessed. 

"I don't think so." I couldn't be sure that he wouldn't disappear inconveniently again. 

But outside the door to our Spanish class, leaning against the wall — looking more like a Greek god than 
anyone had a right to — Edward was waiting for me. Jessica took one look, rolled her eyes, and 
departed. 

"See you later, Bella." Her voice was thick with implications. I might have to turn off the ringer on the 
phone. 

"Hello." His voice was amused and irritated at the same time. He had been listening, it was obvious. 
"Hi." 

I couldn't think of anything else to say, and he didn't speak — biding his time, I presumed — so it was a 
quiet walk to the cafeteria. Walking with Edward through the crowded lunchtime rush was a lot like my 
first day here; everyone stared. 

He led the way into the line, still not speaking, though his eyes returned to my face every few seconds, 
their expression speculative. It seemed to me that irritation was winning out over amusement as the 
dominant emotion in his face. I fidgeted nervously with the zipper on my jacket. 

He stepped up to the counter and filled a tray with food. 

"What are you doing?" I objected. "You're not getting all that for me?" 

He shook his head, stepping forward to buy the food. 

"Half is for me, of course." 

I raised one eyebrow. 

He led the way to the same place we'd sat that one time before. From the other end of the long table, a 
group of seniors gazed at us in amazement as we sat across from each other. Edward seemed oblivious. 

"Take whatever you want," he said, pushing the tray toward me. 



"I'm curious," I said as I picked up an apple, turning it around in my hands, "what would you do if 
someone dared you to eat food?" 

"You're always curious." He grimaced, shaking his head. He glared at me, holding my eyes as he lifted 
the slice of pizza off the tray, and deliberately bit off a mouthful, chewed quickly, and then swallowed. I 
watched, eyes wide. 

"If someone dared you to eat dirt, you could, couldn't you?" he asked condescendingly. 
I wrinkled my nose. "I did once. . . on a dare," I admitted. "It wasn't so bad." 

He laughed. "I suppose I'm not surprised." Something over my shoulder seemed to catch his attention. 

"Jessica's analyzing everything I do — she'll break it down for you later." He pushed the rest of the pizza 
toward me. The mention of Jessica brought a hint of his former irritation back to his features. 

I put down the apple and took a bite of the pizza, looking away, knowing he was about to start. 

"So the waitress was pretty, was she?" he asked casually. 

"You really didn't notice?" 

"No. I wasn't paying attention. I had a lot on my mind." 
"Poor girl." I could afford to be generous now. 

"Something you said to Jessica. . . well, it bothers me." He refused to be distracted. His voice was husky, 
and he glanced up from under his lashes with troubled eyes. 

"I'm not surprised you heard something you didn't like. You know what they say about eavesdropners," I 
reminded him. 

"I warned you I would be Ustening." 

"And I warned you that you didn't want to know everything I was thinking." 

"You did," he agreed, but his voice was still rough. "You aren't precisely right, though. I do want to know 
what you're minking — everything. I just wish. . . that you wouldn't be tliinking some things." 

I scowled. "That's quite a distinction." 

"But that's not really the point at the moment." 

"Then what is?" We were inclined toward each other across the table now. He had his large white hands 
folded under his chin; I leaned forward, my right hand cupped around my neck. I had to remind myself 
that we were in a crowded lunchroom, with probably many curious eyes on us. It was too easy to get 
wrapped up in our own private, tense little bubble. 

"Do you truly believe that you care more for me than I do for you?" he murmured, leaning closer to me as 
he spoke, his dark golden eyes piercing. 

I tried to remember how to exhale. I had to look away before it came back to me. 

"You're doing it again," I muttered. 

His eyes opened wide with surprise. "What?" 



"Dazzling me," I admitted, trying to concentrate as I looked back at him. 
"Oh." He frowned. 

"It's not your fault," I sighed. "You can't help it." 
"Are you going to answer the question?" 
I looked down. "Yes." 

"Yes, you are going to answer, or yes, you really think that?" He was irritated again. 

"Yes, I really think that." I kept my eyes down on the table, my eyes tracing the pattern of the faux wood 
grains printed on the laminate. The silence dragged on. I stubbornly refused to be the first to break it this 
time, fighting hard against the temptation to peek at his expression. 

Finally he spoke, voice velvet soft. "You're wrong." 

I glanced up to see that his eyes were gentle. 

"You can't know that," I disagreed in a whisper. I shook my head in doubt, though my heart throbbed at 
his words and I wanted so badly to believe them. 

"What makes you think so?" His liquid topaz eyes were penetrating — trying futilely, I assumed, to lift the 
truth straight from my mind. 

I stared back, struggling to think clearly in spite of his face, to find some way to explain. As I searched 
for the words, I could see him getting impatient; frustrated by my silence, he started to scowl. I lifted my 
hand from my neck, and held up one finger. 

"Let me think," I insisted. His expression cleared, now that he was satisfied that I was planning to answer. 
I dropped my hand to the table, moving my left hand so that my palms were pressed together. I stared at 
my hands, twisting and untwisting my fingers, as I finally spoke. 

"Well, aside from the obvious, sometimes. . . " I hesitated. "I can't be sure — / don't know how to read 
minds — but sometimes it seems like you're trying to say goodbye when you're saying something else." 
That was the best I could sum up the sensation of anguish that his words triggered in me at times. 

"Perceptive," he whispered. And there was the anguish again, surfacing as he confirmed my fear. "That's 
exactiy why you're wrong, though," he began to explain, but then his eyes narrowed. "What do you 
mean, 'the obvious'?" 

"Well, look at me," I said, unnecessarily as he was already staring. "I'm absolutely ordinary — well, 
except for bad things like all the near-death experiences and being so clumsy that I'm almost disabled. 
And look at you." I waved my hand toward him and all his bewildering perfection. 

His brow creased angrily for a moment, then smoothed as his eyes took on a knowing look. "You don't 
see yourself very clearly, you know. I'll admit you're dead-on about the bad things," he chuckled blackly, 
"but you didn't hear what every human male in this school was tWnking on your first day." 

I blinked, astonished. "I don't believe it. . . " I mumbled to myself. 

"Trust me just this once — you are the opposite of ordinary." 

My embarrassment was much stronger than my pleasure at the look that came into his eyes when he said 



this. I quickly reminded him of my original argument. 
"But I'm not saying goodbye," I pointed out. 

"Don't you see? That's what proves me right. I care the most, because if I can do it" — he shook his 
head, seeming to struggle with the thought — "if leaving is the right thing to do, then I'll hurt myself to 
keep from hurting you, to keep you safe." 

I glared. "And you don't think I would do the same?" 

"You'd never have to make the choice." 

Abruptly, his unpredictable mood shifted again; a mischievous, devastating smile rearranged his features. 
"Of course, keeping you safe is beginning to feel like a full-time occupation that requires my constant 
presence." 

"No one has tried to do away with me today," I reminded him, grateful for the lighter subject. I didn't 
want him to talk about goodbyes anymore. If I had to, I supposed I could purposefully put myself in 
danger to keep him close. . . I banished that thought before his quick eyes read it on my face. That idea 
would definitely get me in trouble. 

"Yet," he added. 

"Yet," I agreed; I would have argued, but now I wanted him to be expecting disasters. 

"I have another question for you." His face was still casual. 

"Shoot." 

"Do you really need to go to Seattle this Saturday, or was that just an excuse to get out of saying no to 
all your admirers?" 

I made a face at the memory. "You know, I haven't forgiven you for the Tyler thing yet," I warned him. 
"It's your fault that he's deluded himself into tMnking I'm going to prom with him." 

"Oh, he would have found a chance to ask you without me — I just really wanted to watch your face," 
he chuckled, I would have been angrier if his laughter wasn't so fascinating. "If I'd asked you, would you 
have turned me down?" he asked, still laughing to himself. 

"Probably not," I admitted. "But I would have canceled later — faked an illness or a sprained ankle." 
He was puzzled. "Why would you do that?" 

I shook my head sadly. "You've never seen me in Gym, I guess, but I would have thought you would 
understand." 

"Are you referring to the fact that you can't walk across a flat, stable surface without finding something to 
trip over?" 

"Obviously." 

"That wouldn't be a problem." He was very confident. "It's all in the leading." He could see that I was 
about to protest, and he cut me off. "But you never told me — are you resolved on going to Seattle, or 
do you mind if we do something different?" 



As long as the "we" part was in, I didn't care about anything else. 

"I'm open to alternatives," I allowed. "But I do have a favor to ask." 

He looked wary, as he always did when I asked an open-ended question. "What?" 

"Can I drive?" 

He frowned. "Why?" 

"Well, mostly because when I told Charlie I was going to Seattle, he specifically asked if I was going 
alone and, at the time, I was. If he asked again, I probably wouldn't lie, but I don't think he will ask 
again, and leaving my truck at home would just bring up the subject unnecessarily. And also, because 
your driving frightens me." 

He rolled his eyes. "Of all the things about me that could frighten you, you worry about my driving." He 
shook his head in disgust, but then his eyes were serious again. "Won't you want to tell your father that 
you're spending the day with me?" There was an undercurrent to his question that I didn't understand. 

"With Charlie, less is always more." I was definite about that. "Where are we going, anyway?" 

"The weather will be nice, so I'll be staying out of the public eye. . . and you can stay with me, if you'd like 
to." Again, he was leaving the choice up to me. 

"And you'll show me what you meant, about the sun?" I asked, excited by the idea of unraveling another 
of the unknowns. 

"Yes." He smiled, and then paused. "But if you don't want to be. . . alone with me, I'd still rather you 
didn't go to Seattle by yourself. I shudder to think of the trouble you could find in a city that size." 

I was miffed. "Phoenix is three times bigger than Seattle — just in population. In physical size — " 

"But apparently," he interrupted me, "your number wasn't up in Phoenix. So I'd rather you stayed near 
me." His eyes did that unfair smoldering thing again. 

I couldn't argue, with the eyes or the motivation, and it was a moot point anyway. "As it happens, I don't 
mind being alone with you." 

"I know," he sighed, brooding. "You should tell Charlie, though." 
"Why in the world would I do that?" 

His eyes were suddenly fierce. "To give me some small incentive to bring you back." 

I gulped. But, after a moment of thought, I was sure. "I think I'll take my chances." 

He exhaled angrily, and looked away. 

"Let's talk about something else," I suggested. 

"What do you want to talk about?" he asked. He was still annoyed. 

I glanced around us, making sure we were well out of anyone's hearing. As I cast my eyes around the 
room, I caught the eyes of his sister, Alice, staring at me. The others were looking at Edward. I looked 
away swiftly, back to him, and I. asked the first thing that came to mind. 



"Why did you go to that Goat Rocks place last weekend. . . to hunt? Charlie said it wasn't a good place 
to hike, because of bears." 

He stared at me as if I was missing something very obvious. 

"Bears?" I gasped, and he smirked. "You know, bears are not in season," I added sternly, to hide my 
shock. 

"If you read carefully, the laws only cover hunting with weapons," he informed me. 
He watched my face with enjoyment as that slowly sank in. 
"Bears?" I repeated with difficulty. 

"Grizzly is Emmett's favorite." His voice was still offhand, but his eyes were scrutinizing my reaction. I 
tried to pull myself together. 

"Hrnmm," I said, taking another bite of pizza as an excuse to look down. I chewed slowly, and then took 
a long drink of Coke without looking up. 

"So," I said after a moment, finally meeting his now-anxious gaze. "What's your favorite?" 

He raised an eyebrow and the corners of his mouth turned down in disapproval. "Mountain lion." 

"Ah," I said in a politely disinterested tone, looking for my soda again. 

"Of course," he said, and his tone mirrored mine, "we have to be careful not to impact the environment 
with injudicious hunting. We try to focus on areas with an overpopulation of predators — ranging as far 
away as we need. There's always plenty of deer and elk here, and they'll do, but where's the fun in that?" 
He smiled teasingly. 

"Where indeed," I murmured around another bite of pizza. 

"Early spring is Emmett's favorite bear season — they're just coining out of hibernation, so they're more 
irritable." He smiled at some remembered joke. 

"Nothing more fun than an irritated grizzly bear," I agreed, nodding. 

He snickered, shaking his head. "Tell me what you're really minking, please." 

"I'm trying to picture it — but I can't," I admitted. "How do you hunt a bear without weapons?" 

"Oh, we have weapons." He flashed his bright teeth in a brief, threatening smile. I fought back a shiver 
before it could expose me. "Just not the kind they consider when writing hunting laws. If you've ever seen 
a bear attack on television, you should be able to visualize Emmett hunting." 

I couldn't stop the next shiver that flashed down my spine. I peeked across the cafeteria toward Emmett, 
grateful that he wasn't looking my way. The thick bands of muscle that wrapped his arms and torso were 
somehow even more menacing now. 

Edward followed my gaze and chuckled. I stared at him, unnerved. 
"Are you like a bear, too?" I asked in a low voice. 

"More like the lion, or so they tell me," he said lightiy. "Perhaps our preferences are indicative." 



I tried to smile. "Perhaps," I repeated. But my mind was filled with opposing images that I couldn't merge 
together. "Is that something I might get to see?" 

"Absolutely not!" His face turned even whiter than usual, and his eyes were suddenly furious. I leaned 
back, stunned and — though I'd never admit it to him — frightened by his reaction. He leaned back as 
well, folding his arms across his chest. 

"Too scary for me?" I asked when I could control my voice again. 

"If that were it, I would take you out tonight," he said, his voice cutting. "You need a healthy dose of fear. 
Nothing could be more beneficial for you." 

"Then why?" I pressed, trying to ignore his angry expression. 

He glared at me for a long minute. 

"Later," he finally said. He was on his feet in one lithe movement. "We're going to be late." 

I glanced around, startled to see that he was right and the cafeteria was nearly vacant. When I was with 
him, the time and the place were such a muddled blur that I completely lost track of both. I jumped up, 
grabbing my bag from the back of my chair. 

"Later, then," I agreed. I wouldn't forget. 
11. COMPLICATIONS 



Everyone watched us as we walked together to our lab table. I noticed that he no longer angled the chair 
to sit as far from me as the desk would allow. Instead, he sat quite close beside me, our arms almost 
touching. 

Mr. Banner backed into the room then — what superb timing the man had — pulling a tall metal frame 
on wheels that held a heavy-looking, outdated TV and VCR. A movie day — the lift in the class 
atmosphere was almost tangible. 

Mr. Banner shoved the tape into the reluctant VCR and walked to the wall to turn off the lights. 

And then, as the room went black, I was suddenly hyperaware that Edward was sitting less than an inch 
from me. I was stunned by the unexpected electricity that flowed through me, amazed that it was possible 
to be more aware of him than I already was. A crazy impulse to reach over and touch him, to stroke his 
perfect face just once in the darkness, nearly overwhelmed me. I crossed my arms tightiy across my 
chest, my hands balling into fists. I was losing my mind. 

The opening credits began, lighting the room by a token amount. My eyes, of their own accord, flickered 
to him. I smiled sheepishly as I realized his posture was identical to mine, fists clenched under his arms, 
right down to the eyes, peering sideways at me. He grinned back, his eyes somehow managing to 
smolder, even in the dark. I looked away before I could start hyperventilating. It was absolutely 
ridiculous that I should feel dizzy. 

The hour seemed very long. I couldn't concentrate on the movie — I didn't even know what subject it 
was on. I tried unsuccessfully to relax, but the electric current that seemed to be originating from 
somewhere in his body never slackened. Occasionally I would permit myself a quick glance in his 



direction, but he never seemed to relax, either. The overpowering craving to touch him also refused to 
fade, and I crushed my fists safely against my ribs until my fingers were aching with the effort. 

I breathed a sigh of relief when Mr. Banner flicked the lights back on at the end of class, and stretched 
my arms out in front of me, flexing my stiff fingers. Edward chuckled beside me. 

"Well, that was interesting," he murmured. His voice was dark and his eyes were cautious. 

"Umm," was all I was able to respond. 

"Shall we?" he asked, rising fluidly. 

I almost groaned. Time for Gym. I stood with care, worried my balance might have been affected by the 
strange new intensity between us. 

He walked me to my next class in silence and paused at the door; I turned to say goodbye. His face 
startled me — his expression was torn, almost pained, and so fiercely beautiful that the ache to touch him 
flared as strong as before. My goodbye stuck in my throat. 

He raised his hand, hesitant, conflict raging in his eyes, and then swiftly brushed the length of my 
cheekbone with his fingertips. His skin was as icy as ever, but the trail his fingers left on my skin was 
alarmingly warm — like I'd been burned, but didn't feel the pain of it yet. 

He turned without a word and strode quickly away from me. 

I walked into the gym, lightheaded and wobbly. I drifted to the locker room, changing in a trancelike 
state, only vaguely aware that there were other people surrounding me. Reality didn't fully set in until I 
was handed a racket. It wasn't heavy, yet it felt very unsafe in my hand. I could see a few of the other 
kids in class eyeing me furtively. Coach Clapp ordered us to pair up into teams. 

Mercifully, some vestiges of Mike's chivalry still survived; he came to stand beside me. 

"Do you want to be a team?" 

"Thanks, Mike — you don't have to do this, you know." I grimaced apologetically. 

"Don't worry, I'll keep out of your way." He grinned. Sometimes it was so easy to like Mike. 

It didn't go smoothly. I somehow managed to hit myself in the head with my racket and clip Mike's 
shoulder on the same swing. I spent the rest of the hour in the back comer of the court, the racket held 
safely behind my back. Despite being handicapped by me, Mike was pretty good; he won three games 
out of four singlehandedly. He gave me an unearned high five when the coach finally blew the whistle 
ending class. 

"So," he said as we walked off the court. 
"So what?" 

"You and Cullen, huh?" he asked, his tone rebellious. My previous feeling of affection disappeared. 

"That's none of your business, Mike," I warned, internally cursing Jessica straight to the fiery pits of 
Hades. 

"I don't like it," he muttered anyway. 



"You don't have to," I snapped. 

"He looks at you like. . . like you're something to eat," he continued, ignoring me. 

I choked back the hysteria that threatened to explode, but a small giggle managed to get out despite my 
efforts. He glowered at me. I waved and fled to the locker room. 

I dressed quickly, something stronger than butterflies battering recklessly against the walls of my stomach, 
my argument with Mike already a distant memory. I was wondering if Edward would be waiting, or if I 
should meet him at his car. What if his family was there? I felt a wave of real terror. Did they know that I 
knew? Was I supposed to know that they knew that I knew, or not? 

By the time I walked out of the gym, I had just about decided to walk straight home without even looking 
toward the parking lot. But my worries were unnecessary. Edward was waiting, leaning casually against 
the side of the gym, his breathtaking face untroubled now. As I walked to his side, I felt a peculiar sense 
of release. 

"Hi," I breathed, smiling hugely. 

"Hello." His answering smile was brilliant. "How was Gym?" 
My face fell a tiny bit. "Fine," I lied. 

"Really?" He was unconvinced. His eyes shifted their focus slightiy, looking over my shoulder and 
narrowing. I glanced behind me to see Mike's back as he walked away. 

"What?" I demanded. 

His eyes slid back to mine, still tight. "Newton's getting on my nerves." 

"You weren't listening again?" I was horror-struck. All traces of my sudden good humor vanished. 
"How's your head?" he asked innocently. 

"You're unbelievable!" I turned, stomping away in the general direction of the parking lot, though I hadn't 
ruled out walking at this point. 

He kept up with me easily. 

"You were the one who mentioned how I'd never seen you in Gym — it made me curious." He didn't 
sound repentant, so I ignored him. 

We walked in silence — a furious, embarrassed silence on my part — to his car. But I had to stop a few 
steps away — a crowd of people, all boys, were surrounding it. 

Then I realized they weren't surrounding the Volvo, they were actually circled around Rosalie's red 
convertible, unmistakable lust in their eyes. None of them even looked up as Edward slid between them 
to open his door. I climbed quickly in the passenger side, also unnoticed. 

"Ostentatious," he muttered. 

"What kind of car is that?" I asked. 



"AnM3." 



"I don't speak Car and Driver" 

"It's a BMW." He rolled his eyes, not looking at me, trying to back out without running over the car 
enthusiasts. 

I nodded — I'd heard of that one. 

"Are you still angry?" he asked as he carefully maneuvered his way out. 
"Definitely." 

He sighed. "Will you forgive me if I apologize?" 

"Maybe. . . if you mean it. And if you promise not to do it again," I insisted. 

His eyes were suddenly shrewd. "How about if I mean it, and I agree to let you drive Saturday?" he 
countered my conditions. 

I considered, and decided it was probably the best offer I would get. "Deal," I agreed. 

"Then I'm very sorry I upset you." His eyes burned with sincerity for a protracted moment — playing 
havoc with the rhythm of my heart — and then turned playful. "And I'll be on your doorstep bright and 
early Saturday morning." 

"Um, it doesn't help with the Charlie situation if an unexplained Volvo is left in the driveway." 

His smile was condescending now. "I wasn't intending to bring a car." 

"How—" 

He cut me off. "Don't worry about it. I'll be there, no car." 
I let it go. I had a more pressing question. 
"Is it later yet?" I asked significantiy. 
He frowned. "I supposed it is later." 
I kept my expression polite as I waited. 

He stopped the car. I looked up, surprised — of course we were already at Charlie's house, parked 
behind the truck. It was easier to ride with him if I only looked when it was over. When I looked back at 
him, he was staring at me, measuring with his eyes. 

"And you still want to know why you can't see me hunt?" He seemed solemn, but I thought I saw a trace 
of humor deep in his eyes. 

"Well," I clarified, "I was mostly wondering about your reaction." 
"Did I frighten you?" Yes, there was definitely humor there. 
"No," I lied. He didn't buy it. 

"I apologize for scaring you," he persisted with a slight smile, but then all evidence of teasing disappeared. 
"It was just the very thought of you being there. . . while we hunted." His jaw tightened. 



"That would be bad?" 



He spoke from between clenched teeth. "Extremely." 
"Because... ?" 

He took a deep breath and stared through the windshield at the thick, rolling clouds that seemed to press 
down, almost within reach. 

"When we hunt," he spoke slowly, unwillingly, "we give ourselves over to our senses. . . govern less with 
our minds. Especially our sense of smell. If you were anywhere near me when I lost control that way ..." 
He shook his head, still gazing morosely at the heavy clouds. 

I kept my expression firmly under control, expecting the swift flash of his eyes to judge my reaction that 
soon followed. My face gave nothing away. 

But our eyes held, and the silence deepened — and changed. Flickers of the electricity I'd felt this 
afternoon began to charge the atmosphere as he gazed unrelentingly into my eyes. It wasn't until my head 
started to swim that I realized I wasn't breathing. When I drew in a jagged breath, breaking the stillness, 
he closed his eyes. 

"Bella, I think you should go inside now." His low voice was rough, his eyes on the clouds again. 

I opened the door, and the arctic draft that burst into the car helped clear my head. Afraid I might 
stumble in my woozy state, I stepped carefully out of the car and shut the door behind me without 
looking back. The whir of the automatic window unrolling made me turn. 

"Oh, Bella?" he called after me, his voice more even. He leaned toward the open window with a faint 
smile on his lips. 

"Yes?" 

"Tomorrow it's my turn." 
"Your turn to what?" 

He smiled wider, flashing his gleaming teeth. "Ask the questions." 

And then he was gone, the car speeding down the street and disappearing around the comer before I 
could even collect my thoughts. I smiled as I walked to the house. It was clear he was planning to see me 
tomorrow, if nothing else. 

That night Edward starred in my dreams, as usual. However, the climate of my unconsciousness had 
changed. It thrilled with the same electricity that had charged the afternoon, and I tossed and turned 
restlessly, waking often. It was only in the early hours of the morning that I finally sank into an exhausted, 
dreamless sleep. 

When I woke I was still tired, but edgy as well. I pulled on my brown turtleneck and the inescapable 
jeans, sighing as I daydreamed of spaghetti straps and shorts. Breakfast was the usual, quiet event I 
expected. Charlie fried eggs for himself; I had my bowl of cereal. I wondered if he had forgotten about 
this Saturday. He answered my unspoken question as he stood up to take his plate to the sink. 

"About this Saturday. . ." he began, walking across the kitchen and turning on the faucet. 



I cringed. "Yes, Dad?" 



"Are you still set on going to Seattle?" he asked. 

"That was the plan." I grimaced, wishing he hadn't brought it up so I wouldn't have to compose careful 
half-truths. 

He squeezed some dish soap onto his plate and swirled it around with the brush. "And you're sure you 
can't make it back in time for the dance?" 

"I'm not going to the dance, Dad." I glared. 

"Didn't anyone ask you?" he asked, trying to hide his concern by focusing on rinsing the plate. 
I sidestepped the minefield. "It's a girl's choice." 
"Oh." He frowned as he dried his plate. 

I sympathized with him. It must be a hard thing, to be a father; living in fear that your daughter would 
meet a boy she liked, but also having to worry if she didn't. How ghastly it would be, I thought, 
shuddering, if Charlie had even the slightest inkling of exactiy what I did like. 

Charlie left then, with a goodbye wave, and I went upstairs to brush my teeth and gather my books. 
When I heard the cruiser pull away, I could only wait a few seconds before I had to peek out of my 
window. The silver car was already there, waiting in Charlie's spot on the driveway. I bounded down the 
stairs and out the front door, wondering how long this bizarre routine would continue. I never wanted it to 
end. 




I rolled my eyes. "It changes from day to day." 

"What's your favorite color today?" He was still solemn. 

"Probably brown." I tended to dress according to my mood. 

He snorted, dropping his serious expression. "Brown?" he asked skeptically. 

"Sure. Brown is warm. I miss brown. Everything that's supposed to be brown — tree trunks, rocks, dirt 
— is all covered up with squashy green stuff here," I complained. 

All this happened, more or less. The war parts, anyway, are pretty much true. One guy I 
knew really was shot in Dresden for taking a teapot that wasn’t his. Another guy I knew 
really did threaten to have his personal enemies killed by hired gunmen after the war. 

And so on. I've changed all the names. 

I really did go back to Dresden with Guggenheim money (God love it) in 1967. It 
looked a lot like Dayton, Ohio, more open spaces than Dayton has. There must be tons of 
human bone meal in the ground. 

I went back there with an old war buddy, Bernard V. O'Hare, and we made friends 
with a taxi driver, who took us to the slaughterhouse where we had been locked up at 
night as prisoner of war. His name was Gerhard Muller. He told us that he was a prisoner 
of the Americans for a while. We asked him how it was to live under Communism, and 
he said that it was terrible at first, because everybody had to work so hard, and because 
there wasn't much shelter or food or clothing. But things were much better now. He had a 
pleasant little apartment, and his daughter was getting an excellent education. His mother 
was incinerated in the Dresden fire-storm. So it goes. 


He seemed fascinated by my little rant. He considered for a moment, staring into my eyes. 

"You're right," he decided, serious again. "Brown is warm." He reached over, swiftly, but somehow still 
hesitantly, to sweep my hair back behind my shoulder. 

We were at the school by now. He turned back to me as he pulled into a parking space. 

"What music is in your CD player right now?" he asked, his face as somber as if he'd asked for a murder 
confession. 

I realized I'd never removed the CD Phil had given me. When I said the name of the band, he smiled 
crookedly, a peculiar expression in his eyes. He flipped open a compartment under his car's CD player, 
pulled out one of thirty or so CDs that were jammed into the small space, and handed it to me, 

"Debussy to this?" He raised an eyebrow. 

It was the same CD. I examined the familiar cover art, keeping my eyes down. 

It continued like that for the rest of the day. While he walked me to English, when he met me after 
Spanish, all through the lunch hour, he questioned me relentlessly about every insignificant detail of my 
existence. Movies I'd liked and hated, the few places I'd been and the many places I wanted to go, and 
books — endlessly books. 

I couldn't remember the last time I'd talked so much. More often than not, I felt self-conscious, certain I 
must be boring him. But the absolute absorption of his face, and his never-ending stream of questions, 
compelled me to continue. Mostly his questions were easy, only a very few triggering my easy blushes. 
But when I did flush, it brought on a whole new round of questions. 

Such as the time he asked my favorite gemstone, and I blurted out topaz before thinking. He'd been 
flinging questions at me with such speed that I felt like I was taking one of those psychiatric tests where 
you answer with the first word that comes to mind. I was sure he would have continued down whatever 
mental list he was following, except for the blush. My face reddened because, until very recently, my 
favorite gemstone was garnet. It was impossible, while staring back into his topaz eyes, not to remember 
the reason for the switch. And, naturally, he wouldn't rest until I'd admitted why I was embarrassed. 

"Tell me," he finally commanded after persuasion failed — failed only because I kept my eyes safely 
away from his face. 

"It's the color of your eyes today," I sighed, surrendering, staring down at my hands as I fiddled with a 
piece of my hair. "I suppose if you asked me in two weeks I'd say onyx." I'd given more information than 
necessary in my unwilling honesty, and I worried it would provoke the strange anger that flared whenever 
I slipped and revealed too clearly how obsessed I was. 



But his pause was very short. 

"What kinds of flowers do you prefer?" he fired off. 

I sighed in relief, and continued with the psychoanalysis. 

Biology was a complication again. Edward had continued with his quizzing up until Mr. Banner entered 
the room, dragging the audiovisual frame again. As the teacher approached the light switch, I noticed 
Edward slide his chair slightly farther away from mine. It didn't help. As soon as the room was dark, 
there was the same electric spark, the same restless craving to stretch my hand across the short space 
and touch his cold skin, as yesterday. 

I leaned forward on the table, resting my chin on my folded arms, my hidden fingers gripping the table's 
edge as I fought to ignore the irrational longing that unsettled me. I didn't look at him, afraid that if he was 
looking at me, it would only make self-control that much harder. I sincerely tried to watch the movie, but 
at the end of the hour I had no idea what I'd just seen. I sighed in relief again when Mr. Banner turned the 
lights on, finally glancing at Edward; he was looking at me, his eyes ambivalent. 

He rose in silence and then stood still, waiting for me. We walked toward the gym in silence, like 
yesterday. And, also like yesterday, he touched my face wordlessly — this time with the back of his cool 
hand, stroking once from my temple to my jaw — before he turned and walked away. 

Gym passed quickly as I watched Mike's one-man badminton show. He didn't speak to me today, either 
in response to my vacant expression or because he was still angry about our squabble yesterday. 
Somewhere, in a corner of my mind, I felt bad about that. But I couldn't concentrate on him. 

I hurried to change afterward, ill at ease, knowing the faster I moved, the sooner I would be with 
Edward. The pressure made me more clumsy than usual, but eventually I made it out the door, feeling the 
same release when I saw him standing there, a wide smile automatically spreading across my face. He 
smiled in reaction before launching into more cross-examination. 

His questions were different now, though, not as easily answered. He wanted to know what I missed 
about home, insisting on descriptions of anything he wasn't familiar with. We sat in front of Charlie's 
house for hours, as the sky darkened and rain plummeted around us in a sudden deluge. 

I tried to describe impossible things like the scent of creosote — bitter, slightly resinous, but still pleasant 
— the high, keening sound of the cicadas in July, the feathery barrenness of the trees, the very size of the 
sky, extending white-blue from horizon to horizon, barely interrupted by the low mountains covered with 
purple volcanic rock. The hardest thing to explain was why it was so beautiful to me — to justify a 
beauty that didn't depend on the sparse, spiny vegetation that often looked half dead, a beauty that had 
more to do with the exposed shape of the land, with the shallow bowls of valleys between the craggy 
hills, and the way they held on to the sun. I found myself using my hands as I tried to describe it to him. 

His quiet, probing questions kept me talking freely, forgetting, in the dim light of the storm, to be 
embarrassed for monopolizing the conversation. Finally, when I had finished detailing my cluttered room 
at home, he paused instead of responding with another question. 

"Are you finished?" I asked in relief. 

"Not even close — but your father will be home soon." 

"Charlie!" I suddenly recalled his existence, and sighed. I looked out at the rain-darkened sky, but it gave 
nothing away. "How late is it?" I wondered out loud as I glanced at the clock. I was surprised by the time 



— Charlie would be driving home now. 

"It's twilight," Edward murmured, looking at the western horizon, obscured as it was with clouds. His 
voice was thoughtful, as if his mind were somewhere far away. I stared at him as he gazed unseeingly out 
the windshield. 

I was still staring when his eyes suddenly shifted back to mine. 

"It's the safest time of day for us," he said, answering the unspoken question in my eyes. "The easiest 
time. But also the saddest, in a way. . . the end of another day, the return of the night. Darkness is so 
predictable, don't you think?" He smiled wistfully. 

"I like the night. Without the dark, we'd never see the stars." I frowned. "Not that you see them here 
much." 

He laughed, and the mood abruptiy lightened. 

"Charlie will be here in a few minutes. So, unless you want to tell him that you'll be with me Saturday. . . " 
He raised one eyebrow. 

"Thanks, but no thanks." I gathered my books, realizing I was stiff from sitting still so long. "So is it my 
turn tomorrow, then?" 

"Certainly not!" His face was teasingly outraged. "I told you I wasn't done, didn't I?" 
"What more is there?" 

"You'll find out tomorrow." He reached across to open my door for me, and his sudden proximity sent 
my heart into frenzied palpitations. 

But his hand froze on the handle. 

"Not good," he muttered. 

"What is it?" I was surprised to see that his jaw was clenched, his eyes disturbed. 
He glanced at me for a brief second. "Another complication," he said glumly. 

He flung the door open in one swift movement, and then moved, almost cringed, swiftly away from me. 

The flash of headlights through the rain caught my attention as a dark car pulled up to the curb just a few 
feet away, facing us. 

"Charlie's around the comer," he warned, staring through the downpour at the other vehicle. 

I hopped out at once, despite my confusion and curiosity. The rain was louder as it glanced off my 
jacket. 

I tried to make out the shapes in the front seat of the other car, but it was too dark. I could see Edward 
illuminated in the glare of the new car's headlights; he was still staring ahead, his gaze locked on 
something or someone I couldn't see. His expression was a strange mix of frustration and defiance. 

Then he revved the engine, and the tires squealed against the wet pavement. The Volvo was out of sight 
in seconds. 



"Hey, Bella," called a familiar, husky voice from the driver's side of the lMe black car. 

"Jacob?" I asked, squinting through the rain. Just then, Charlie's cruiser swung around the corner, his 
lights shining on the occupants of the car in front of me. 

Jacob was already climbing out, his wide grin visible even through the darkness. In the passenger seat 
was a much older man, a heavyset man with a memorable face — a face that overflowed, the cheeks 
resting against his shoulders, with creases running through the russet skin like an old leather jacket. And 
the surprisingly familiar eyes, black eyes that seemed at the same time both too young and too ancient for 
the broad face they were set in. Jacob's father, Billy Black. I knew him immediately, though in the more 
than five years since I'd seen him last I'd managed to forget his name when Charlie had spoken of him my 
first day here. He was staring at me, scrutinizing my face, so I smiled tentatively at him. His eyes were 
wide, as if in shock or fear, his nostrils flared. My smile faded. 

Another complication, Edward had said. 

Billy still stared at me with intense, anxious eyes. I groaned internally. Had Billy recognized Edward so 
easily? Could he really believe the impossible legends his son had scoffed at? 

The answer was clear in Billy's eyes. Yes. Yes, he could. 
12. BALANCING 

"Billy!" Charlie called as soon as he got out of the car. 

I turned toward the house, beckoning to Jacob as I ducked under the porch. I heard Charlie greeting 
them loudly behind me. 

"I'm going to pretend I didn't see you behind the wheel, Jake," he said disapprovingly. 

"We get permits early on the rez," Jacob said while I unlocked the door and flicked on the porch light. 

"Sure you do," Charlie laughed. 

"I have to get around somehow." I recognized Billy's resonant voice easily, despite the years. The sound 
of it made me feel suddenly younger, a child. 

I went inside, leaving the door open behind me and turning on lights before I hung up my jacket. Then I 
stood in the door, watching anxiously as Charlie and Jacob helped Billy out of the car and into his 
wheelchair. 

I backed out of the way as the three of them hurried in, shaking off the rain. 
"This is a surprise," Charlie was saying. 

"It's been too long," Billy answered. "I hope it's not a bad time." His dark eyes flashed up to me again, 
their expression unreadable. 

"No, it's great. I hope you can stay for the game." 

Jacob grinned. "I think that's the plan — our TV broke last week." 



Billy made a face at his son. "And, of course, Jacob was anxious to see Bella again," he added. Jacob 
scowled and ducked his head while I fought back a surge of remorse. Maybe I'd been too convincing on 
the beach. 

"Are you hungry?" I asked, turning toward the kitchen. I was eager to escape Billy's searching gaze. 
"Naw, we ate just before we came," Jacob answered. 

"How about you, Charlie?" I called over my shoulder as I fled around the comer. 

"Sure," he replied, his voice moving in the direction of the front room and the TV. I could hear Billy's 
chair follow. 

The grilled cheese sandwiches were in the frying pan and I was slicing up a tomato when I sensed 
someone behind me. 

"So, how are things?" Jacob asked. 

"Pretty good." I smiled. His enthusiasm was hard to resist. "How about you? Did you finish your car?" 

"No." He frowned. "I still need parts. We borrowed that one." He pointed with his thumb in the direction 
of the front yard. 

"Sorry. I haven't seen any. . . what was it you were looking for?" 

"Master cylinder." He grinned. "Is something wrong with the truck?" he added suddenly. 

"No." 

"Oh. I just wondered because you weren't driving it." 

I stared down at the pan, pulling up the edge of a sandwich to check the bottom side. "I got a ride with a 
friend." 

"Nice ride." Jacob's voice was admiring. "I didn't recognize the driver, though. I thought I knew most of 
the kids around here." 

I nodded noncommittally, keeping my eyes down as I flipped sandwiches. 
"My dad seemed to know him from somewhere." 

"Jacob, could you hand me some plates? They're in the cupboard over the sink." 
"Sure." 

He got the plates in silence. I hoped he would let it drop now. 

"So who was it?" he asked, setting two plates on the counter next to me. 

I sighed in defeat. "Edward Cullen." 

To my surprise, he laughed. I glanced up at him. He looked a little embarrassed. 
"Guess that explains it, then," he said. "I wondered why my dad was acting so strange." 
"That's right." I faked an innocent expression. "He doesn't like the Cullens." 



"Superstitious old man," Jacob muttered under his breath. 

"You don't think he'd say anything to Charlie?" I couldn't help asking, the words corning out in a low 
msh. 

Jacob stared at me for a moment, and I couldn't read the expression in his dark eyes. "I doubt it," he 
finally answered. "I think Charlie chewed him out pretty good last time. They haven't spoken much since 
— tonight is sort of a reunion, I think. I don't think he'd bring it up again." 

"Oh," I said, trying to sound indifferent. 

I stayed in the front room after I carried the food out to Charlie, pretending to watch the game while 
Jacob chattered at me. I was really Ustening to the men's conversation, watching for any sign that Billy 
was about to rat me out, trying to think of ways to stop him if he began. 

It was a long night. I had a lot of homework that was going undone, but I was afraid to leave Billy alone 
with Charlie. Finally, the game ended. 

"Are you and your friends coming back to the beach soon?" Jacob asked as he pushed his father over 
the Up of the threshold. 

"I'm not sure," I hedged. 

"That was fun, Charlie," Billy said. 

"Come up for the next game," Charlie encouraged. 

"Sure, sure," Billy said. "We'll be here. Have a good night." His eyes shifted to mine, and his smile 
disappeared. "You take care, Bella," he added seriously. 

"Thanks," I muttered, looking away. 

I headed for the stairs while Charlie waved from the doorway. 
"Wait, Bella," he said. 

I cringed. Had Billy gotten something in before I'd joined them in the living room? 
But Charlie was relaxed, still grinning from the unexpected visit. 
"I didn't get a chance to talk to you tonight. How was your day?" 

"Good." I hesitated with one foot on the first stair, searching for details I could safely share. "My 
badminton team won all four games." 

"Wow, I didn't know you could play badminton." 

"Well, actually I can't, but my partner is really good," I admitted. 

"Who is it?" he asked with token interest. 

"Urn. . . Mike Newton," I told him reluctantiy. 

"Oh yeah — you said you were friends with the Newton kid." He perked up. "Nice family." He mused 
for a minute. "Why didn't you ask him to the dance this weekend?" 



"Dad!" I groaned. "He's kind of dating my friend Jessica. Besides, you know I can't dance." 

"Oh yeah," he muttered. Then he smiled at me apologetically. "So I guess it's good you'll be gone 
Saturday. . . I've made plans to go fishing with the guys from the station. The weather's supposed to be 
real warm. But if you wanted to put your trip off till someone could go with you, I'd stay home. I know I 
leave you here alone too much." 

"Dad, you're doing a great job." I smiled, hoping my relief didn't show. "I've never minded being alone — 
I'm too much like you." I winked at him, and he smiled his crinkly-eyed smile. 



I slept better that night, too tired to dream again. When I woke to the pearl gray morning, my mood was 
blissful. The tense evening with Billy and Jacob seemed harmless enough now; I decided to forget it 
completely. I caught myself whistling while I was pulling the front part of my hair back into a barrette, and 
later again as I skipped down the stairs. Charlie noticed. 

"You're cheerful this morning," he commented over breakfast. 

I shrugged. "It's Friday." 

I hurried so I would be ready to go the second Charlie left. I had my bag ready, shoes on, teeth brushed, 
but even though I rushed to the door as soon as I was sure Charlie would be out of sight, Edward was 
faster. He was waiting in his shiny car, windows down, engine off. 

I didn't hesitate this time, climbing in the passenger side quickly, the sooner to see his face. He grinned his 
crooked smile at me, stopping my breath and my heart. I couldn't imagine how an angel could be any 
more glorious. There was nothing about him that could be improved upon. 

"How did you sleep?" he asked. I wondered if he had any idea how appealing his voice was. 

"Fine. How was your night?" 

"Pleasant." His smile was amused; I felt like I was missing an inside joke. 
"Can I ask what you did?" I asked. 
"No." He grinned. "Today is still mine." 

He wanted to know about people today: more about Renee, her hobbies, what we'd done in our free 
time together. And then the one grandmother I'd known, my few school friends — embarrassing me 
when he asked about boys I'd dated. I was relieved that I'd never really dated anyone, so that particular 
conversation couldn't last long. He seemed as surprised as Jessica and Angela by my lack of romantic 
history. 

"So you never met anyone you wanted?" he asked in a serious tone that made me wonder what he was 
thinking about. 

I was grudgingly honest. "Not in Phoenix." 
His lips pressed together into a hard line. 

We were in the cafeteria at this point. The day had sped by in the blur that was rapidly becoming routine. 
I took advantage of his brief pause to take a bite of my bagel. 



"I should have let you drive yourself today," he announced, apropos of nothing, while I chewed. 

"Why?" I demanded. 

'Tm leaving with Alice after lunch." 

"Oh." I blinked, bewildered and disappointed. "That's okay, it's not that far of a walk." 

He frowned at me impatientiy. "I'm not going to make you walk home. We'll go get your truck and leave 
it here for you." 

"I don't have my key with me," I sighed. "I really don't mind walking." What I minded was losing my time 
with him. 

He shook his head. "Your truck will be here, and the key will be in the ignition — unless you're afraid 
someone might steal it." He laughed at the thought. 

"All right," I agreed, pursing my lips. I was pretty sure my key was in the pocket of a pair of jeans I wore 
Wednesday, under a pile of clothes in the laundry room. Even if he broke into my house, or whatever he 
was planning, he'd never find it. He seemed to feel the challenge in my consent. He smirked, 
overconfident. 

"So where are you going?" I asked as casually as I could manage. 

"Hunting," he answered grimly. "If I'm going to be alone with you tomorrow, I'm going to take whatever 
precautions I can." His face grew morose. . . and pleading. "You can always cancel, you know." 

I looked down, afraid of the persuasive power of his eyes. I refused to be convinced to fear him, no 
matter how real the danger might be. It doesn 't matter, I repeated in my head. 

"No," I whispered, glancing back at his face. "I can't." 

"Perhaps you're right," he murmured bleakly. His eyes seemed to darken in color as I watched. 

I changed the subject. "What time will I see you tomorrow?" I asked, already depressed by the thought 
of him leaving now. 

"That depends. . . it's a Saturday, don't you want to sleep in?" he offered. 

"No," I answered too fast. He restrained a smile. 

"The same time as usual, then," he decided. "Will Charlie be there?" 

"No, he's fishing tomorrow." I beamed at the memory of how conveniently things had worked out. 
His voice turned sharp. "And if you don't come home, what will he think?" 

"I have no idea," I answered coolly. "He knows I've been meaning to do the laundry. Maybe he'll think I 
fell in the washer." 

He scowled at me and I scowled back. His anger was much more impressive than mine. 

"What are you hunting tonight?" I asked when I was sure I had lost the glowering contest. 

"Whatever we find in the park. We aren't going far." He seemed bemused by my casual reference to his 
secret realities. 



"Why are you going with Alice?" I wondered. 

"Alice is the most. . . supportive." He frowned as he spoke. 

"And the others?" I asked timidly. "What are they?" 

His brow puckered for a brief moment. "Incredulous, for the most part." 

I peeked quickly behind me at his family. They sat staring off in different directions, exactly the same as 
the first time I'd seen them. Only now they were four; their beautiful, bronze-haired brother sat across 
from me, his golden eyes troubled. 

"They don't like me," I guessed. 

"That's not it," he disagreed, but his eyes were too innocent. "They don't understand why I can't leave 
you alone." 

I grimaced. "Neither do I, for that matter." 

Edward shook his head slowly, rolling his eyes toward the ceiling before he met my gaze again. "I told 
you — you don't see yourself clearly at all. You're not like anyone I've ever known. You fascinate me." 

I glared at him, sure he was teasing now. 

He smiled as he deciphered my expression. "Having the advantages I do," he murmured, touching his 
forehead discreetly, "I have a better than average grasp of human nature. People are predictable. But 
you. . . you never do what I expect. You always take me by surprise." 

I looked away, my eyes wandering back to his family, embarrassed and dissatisfied. His words made me 
feel like a science experiment. I wanted to laugh at myself for expecting anything else. 

"That part is easy enough to explain," he continued. I felt his eyes on my face but I couldn't look at him 
yet, afraid he might read the chagrin in my eyes. "But there's more. . . and it's not so easy to put into 
words — " 

I was still staring at the Cullens while he spoke. Suddenly Rosalie, his blond and breathtaking sister, 
turned to look at me. No, not to look — to glare, with dark, cold eyes. I wanted to look away, but her 
gaze held me until Edward broke off mid-sentence and made an angry noise under his breath. It was 
almost a hiss. 

Rosalie turned her head, and I was relieved to be free. I looked back at Edward — and I knew he could 
see the confusion and fear that widened my eyes. 

His face was tight as he explained. "I'm sorry about that. She's just worried. You see. . . it's dangerous for 
more than just me if, after spending so much time with you so publicly. . ." He looked down. 

"If?" 

"If this ends. . . badly." He dropped his head into his hands, as he had that night in Port Angeles. His 
anguish was plain; I yearned to comfort him, but I was at a loss to know how. My hand reached toward 
him involuntarily; quickly, though, I dropped it to the table, fearing that my touch would only make things 
worse. I realized slowly that his words should frighten me. I waited for that fear to come, but all I could 
seem to feel was an ache for his pain. 

And frustration — frustration that Rosalie had interrupted whatever he was about to say. I didn't know 



how to bring it up again. He still had his head in his hands. 

I tried to speak in a normal voice. "And you have to leave now?" 

"Yes." He raised his face; it was serious for a moment, and then his mood shifted and he smiled. "It's 
probably for the best. We still have fifteen minutes of that wretched movie left to endure in Biology — I 
don't think I could take any more." 

I started. Alice — her short, inky hair in a halo of spiky disarray around her exquisite, elfin face — was 
suddenly standing behind his shoulder. Her slight frame was willowy, graceful even in absolute stillness. 

He greeted her without looking away from me. "Alice." 

"Edward," she answered, her high soprano voice almost as attractive as his. 

"Alice, Bella — Bella, Alice," he introduced us, gesturing casually with his hand, a wry smile on his face. 

"Hello, Bella." Her brilliant obsidian eyes were unreadable, but her smile was friendly. "It's nice to finally 
meet you." 

Edward flashed a dark look at her. 

"Hi, Alice," I murmured shyly. 

"Are you ready?" she asked him. 

His voice was aloof. "Nearly. I'll meet you at the car." 

She left without another word; her walk was so fluid, so sinuous that I felt a sharp pang of jealousy. 

"Should I say 'have fun,' or is that the wrong sentiment?" I asked, turning back to him. 

"No, 'have fun' works as well as anything." He grinned. 

"Have fun, then." I worked to sound wholehearted. Of course I didn't fool him. 

"I'll try." He still grinned. "And you try to be safe, please." 

"Safe in Forks — what a challenge." 

"For you it is a challenge." His jaw hardened. "Promise." 

"I promise to try to be safe," I recited. "I'll do the laundry tonight — that ought to be fraught with peril." 

"Don't fall in," he mocked. 

"I'll do my best." 

He stood then, and I rose, too. 

"I'll see you tomorrow," I sighed. 

"It seems like a long time to you, doesn't it?" he mused. 

I nodded glumly. 

"I'll be there in the morning," he promised, smiling his crooked smile. He reached across the table to 



touch my face, lightly brushing along my cheekbone again. Then he turned and walked away. I stared 
after him until he was gone. 

I was sorely tempted to ditch the rest of the day, at the very least Gym, but a warning instinct stopped 
me. I knew that if I disappeared now, Mike and others would assume I was with Edward. And Edward 
was worried about the time we'd spent together publicly. . . if things went wrong. I refused to dwell on the 
last thought, concentrating instead on making things safer for him. 

I intuitively knew — and sensed he did, too — that tomorrow would be pivotal. Our relationship couldn't 
continue to balance, as it did, on the point of a knife. We would fall off one edge or the other, depending 
entirely upon his decision, or his instincts. My decision was made, made before I'd ever consciously 
chosen, and I was committed to seeing it through. Because there was nothing more terrifying to me, more 
excruciating, than the thought of turning away from him. It was an impossibility. 

I went to class, feeling dutiful. I couldn't honestly say what happened in Biology; my mind was too 
preoccupied with thoughts of tomorrow. In Gym, Mike was speaking to me again; he wished me a good 
time in Seattle. I carefully explained that I'd canceled my trip, worried about my truck. 

"Are you going to the dance with Cullen?" he asked, suddenly sulky. 

"No, I'm not going to the dance at all." 

"What are you doing, then?" he asked, too interested. 

My natural urge was to tell him to butt out. Instead, I lied brightly. 

"Laundry, and then I have to study for the Trig test or I'm going to fail." 

"Is Cullen helping you study?" 

"Edward" I emphasized, "is not going to help me study. He's gone away somewhere for the weekend." 
The lies came more naturally than usual, I noted with surprise. 

"Oh." He perked up. "You know, you could come to the dance with our group anyway — that would be 
cool. We'd all dance with you," he promised. 

The mental image of Jessica's face made my tone sharper than necessary. 
'Tm not going to the dance, Mike, okay?" 
"Fine." He sulked again. "I was just offering." 

When the school day had finally ended, I walked to the parking lot without enthusiasm. I did not 
especially want to walk home, but I couldn't see how he would have retrieved my truck. Then again, I 
was starting to believe that nothing was impossible for him. The latter instinct proved correct — my truck 
sat in the same space he'd parked his Volvo in this morning. I shook my head, incredulous, as I opened 
the unlocked door and saw the key in the ignition. 

There was a piece of white paper folded on my seat. I got in and closed the door before I unfolded it. 
Two words were written in his elegant script. 



Be safe. 



The sound of the truck roaring to life frightened me. I laughed at myself. 

When I got home, the handle of the door was locked, the dead bolt unlocked, just as I'd left it this 
morning. Inside, I went straight to the laundry room. It looked just the same as I'd left it, too. I dug for 
my jeans and, after finding them, checked the pockets. Empty. Maybe I'd hung my key up after all, I 
thought, shaking my head. 

Following the same instinct that had prompted me to lie to Mike, I called Jessica on the pretense of 
wishing her luck at the dance. When she offered the same wish for my day with Edward, I told her about 
the cancellation. She was more disappointed than really necessary for a third-party observer to be. I said 
goodbye quickly after that. 

Charlie was absentminded at dinner, worried over something at work, I guessed, or maybe a basketball 
game, or maybe he was just really enjoying the lasagna — it was hard to tell with Charlie. 

"You know, Dad. . . " I began, breaking into his reverie. 

"What's that, Bell?" 

"I think you're right about Seattle. I think I'll wait until Jessica or someone else can go with me." 
"Oh," he said, surprised. "Oh, okay. So, do you want me to stay home?" 

"No, Dad, don't change your plans. I've got a million things to do. . . homework, laundry. . . I need to go 
to the library and the grocery store. I'll be in and out all day. . . you go and have fun." 

"Are you sure?" 

"Absolutely, Dad. Besides, the freezer is getting dangerously low on fish — we're down to a two, maybe 
three years' supply." 

"You're sure easy to live with, Bella." He smiled. 

"I could say the same thing about you," I said, laughing. The sound of my laughter was off, but he didn't 
seem to notice. I felt so guilty for deceiving him that I almost took Edward's advice and told him where I 
would be. Almost. 

After dinner, I folded clothes and moved another load through the dryer. Unfortunately it was the kind of 
job that only keeps hands busy. My mind definitely had too much free time, and it was getting out of 
control. I fluctuated between anticipation so intense that it was very nearly pain, and an insidious fear that 
picked at my resolve. I had to keep reminding myself that I'd made my choice, and I wasn't going back 
on it. I pulled his note out of my pocket much more often than necessary to absorb the two small words 
he'd written. He wants me to be safe, I told myself again and again. I would just hold on to the faith that, 
in the end, that desire would win out over the others. And what was my other choice — to cut him out of 
my life? Intolerable. Besides, since I'd come to Forks, it really seemed like my life was about him 

But a tiny voice in the back of my mind worried, wondering if it would hurt very much. . . if it ended 
badly. 

I was relieved when it was late enough to be acceptable for bedtime. I knew I was far too stressed to 
sleep, so I did something I'd never done before. I deliberately took unnecessary cold medicine — the 
kind that knocked me out for a good eight hours. I normally wouldn't condone that type of behavior in 
myself, but tomorrow would be complicated enough without me being loopy from sleep deprivation on 
top of everything else. While I waited for the drugs to kick in, I dried my clean hair till it was impeccably 



straight, and fussed over what I would wear tomorrow. With everything ready for the morning, I finally 
lay in my bed. I felt hyper; I couldn't stop twitching. I got up and rifled through my shoebox of CDs until I 
found a collection of Chopin's nocturnes. I put that on very quietly and then lay down again, 
concentrating on relaxing individual parts of my body. Somewhere in the middle of that exercise, the cold 
pills took effect, and I gladly sank into unconsciousness. 



I woke early, having slept soundly and dreamlessly thanks to my gratuitous drug use. Though I was well 
rested, I slipped right back into the same hectic frenzy from the night before. I dressed in a rash, 
smoothing my collar against my neck, fidgeting with the tan sweater till it hung right over my jeans. I 
sneaked a swift look out the window to see that Charlie was already gone. A thin, cottony layer of 
clouds veiled the sky. They didn't look very lasting. 

I ate breakfast without tasting the food, hurrying to clean up when I was done. I peeked out the window 
again, but nothing had changed. I had just finished brushing my teeth and was heading back downstairs 
when a quiet knock sent my heart thudding against my rib cage. 

I flew to the door; I had a little trouble with the simple dead bolt, but I yanked the door open at last, and 
there he was. All the agitation dissolved as soon as I looked at his face, calm taking its place. I breathed 
a sigh of relief — yesterday's fears seemed very foolish with him here. 

He wasn't smiling at first — his face was somber. But then his expression lightened as he looked me 
over, and he laughed. 

"Good morning," he chuckled. 

"What's wrong?" I glanced down to make sure I hadn't forgotten anything important, like shoes, or pants. 

"We match." He laughed again. I realized he had a long, light tan sweater on, with a white collar showing 
underneath, and blue jeans. I laughed with him, hiding a secret twinge of regret — why did he have to 
look like a runway model when I couldn't? 

I locked the door behind me while he walked to the track. He waited by the passenger door with a 
martyred expression that was easy to understand. 

"We made a deal," I reminded him smugly, climbing into the driver's seat, and reaching over to unlock his 
door. 

"Where to?" I asked. 

"Put your seat belt on — I'm nervous already." 
I gave him a dirty look as I complied. 
"Where to?" I repeated with a sigh. 
"Take the one-oh-one north," he ordered. 

It was surprisingly difficult to concentrate on the road while feeling his gaze on my face. I compensated 
by driving more carefully than usual through the still-sleeping town. 

"Were you planning to make it out of Forks before nightfall?" 



"This track is old enough to be your car's grandfather — have some respect," I retorted. 



We were soon out of the town limits, despite his negativity. Thick underbrush and green-swathed trunks 
replaced the lawns and houses. 

"Turn right on the one-ten," he instructed just as I was about to ask. I obeyed silently. 
"Now we drive until the pavement ends." 

I could hear a smile in his voice, but I was too afraid of driving off the road and proving him right to look 
over and be sure. 

"And what's there, at the pavement's end?" I wondered. 
"A trail." 

"We're hiking?" Thank goodness I'd worn tennis shoes. 

"Is that a problem?" He sounded as if he'd expected as much. 

"No." I tried to make the he sound confident. But if he thought my truck was slow. . . 

"Don't worry, it's only five miles or so, and we're in no hurry." 

Five miles. I didn't answer, so that he wouldn't hear my voice crack in panic. Five miles of treacherous 
roots and loose stones, trying to twist my ankles or otherwise incapacitate me. This was going to be 
humiliating. 

We drove in silence for a while as I contemplated the coming horror. 
"What are you tliinking?" he asked impatiently after a few moments. 
I lied again. "Just wondering where we're going." 

"It's a place I like to go when the weather is nice." We both glanced out the windows at the thinning 
clouds after he spoke. 

"Charlie said it would be warm today." 

"And did you tell Charlie what you were up to?" he asked. 

"Nope." 

"But Jessica thinks we're going to Seattle together?" He seemed cheered by the idea. 

"No, I told her you canceled on me — which is true." 

"No one knows you're with me?" Angrily, now. 

"That depends. . . I assume you told Alice?" 

"That's very helpful, Bella," he snapped. 

I pretended I didn't hear that. 

"Are you so depressed by Forks that it's made you suicidal?" he demanded when I ignored him. 
"You said it might cause trouble for you. . . us being together publicly," I reminded him. 



"So you're worried about the trouble it might cause me — if you don't come homeT His voice was still 
angry, and bitingly sarcastic. 

I nodded, keeping my eyes on the road. 

He muttered something under his breath, speaking so quickly that I couldn't understand. 

We were silent for the rest of the drive. I could feel the waves of infuriated disapproval rolling off of him, 
and I could think of nothing to say. 

And then the road ended, constricting to a thin foot trail with a small wooden marker. I parked on the 
narrow shoulder and stepped out, afraid because he was angry with me and I didn't have driving as an 
excuse not to look at him. It was warm now, warmer than it had been in Forks since the day I'd arrived, 
almost muggy under the clouds. I pulled off my sweater and knotted it around my waist, glad that I'd 
worn the light, sleeveless shirt — especially if I had five miles of hiking ahead of me. 

I heard his door slam, and looked over to see that he'd removed his sweater, too. He was facing away 
from me, into the unbroken forest beside my truck. 

"This way," he said, glancing over his shoulder at me, eyes still annoyed. He started into the dark forest. 
"The trail?" Panic was clear in my voice as I hurried around the truck to catch up to him. 
"I said there was a trail at the end of the road, not that we were taking it." 
"No trail?" I asked desperately. 

"I won't let you get lost." He turned then, with a mocking smile, and I stifled a gasp. His white shirt was 
sleeveless, and he wore it unbuttoned, so that the smooth white skin of his throat flowed uninterrupted 
over the marble contours of his chest, his perfect musculature no longer merely hinted at behind 
concealing clothes. He was too perfect, I realized with a piercing stab of despair. There was no way this 
godlike creature could be meant for me. 

He stared at me, bewildered by my tortured expression. 

"Do you want to go home?" he said quietly, a different pain than mine saturating his voice. 

"No." I walked forward till I was close beside him, anxious not to waste one second of whatever time I 
might have with him. 

"What's wrong?" he asked, his voice gentle. 

"I'm not a good hiker," I answered dully. "You'll have to be very patient." 

"I can be patient — if I make a great effort." He smiled, holding my glance, trying to lift me out of my 
sudden, unexplained dejection. 

I tried to smile back, but the smile was unconvincing. He scrutinized my face. 

"I'll take you home," he promised. I couldn't tell if the promise was unconditional, or restricted to an 
immediate departure. I knew he thought it was fear that upset me, and I was grateful again that I was the 
one person whose mind he couldn't hear. 

"If you want me to hack five miles through the jungle before sundown, you'd better start leading the way," 
I said acidly. He frowned at me, struggling to understand my tone and expression. 



He gave up after a moment and led the way into the forest. 

It wasn't as hard as I had feared. The way was mostly flat, and he held the damp ferns and webs of moss 
aside for me. When his straight path took us over fallen trees or boulders, he would help me, hfting me by 
the elbow, and then releasing me instantly when I was clear. His cold touch on my skin never failed to 
make my heart thud erratically. Twice, when that happened, I caught a look on his face that made me 
sure he could somehow hear it. 

I tried to keep my eyes away from his perfection as much as possible, but I slipped often. Each time, his 
beauty pierced me through with sadness. 

For the most part, we walked in silence. Occasionally he would ask a random question that he hadn't 
gotten to in the past two days of interrogation. He asked about my birthdays, my grade school teachers, 
my childhood pets — and I had to admit that after killing three fish in a row, I'd given up on the whole 
institution. He laughed at that, louder than I was used to — bell-like echoes bouncing back to us from the 
empty woods. 

The hike took me most of the morning, but he never showed any sign of impatience. The forest spread 
out around us in a boundless labyrinth of ancient trees, and I began to be nervous that we would never 
find our way out again. He was perfectly at ease, comfortable in the green maze, never seeming to feel 
any doubt about our direction. 

After several hours, the light that filtered through the canopy transformed, the murky olive tone shifting to 
a brighter jade. The day had turned sunny, just as he'd foretold. For the first time since we'd entered the 
woods, I felt a thrill of excitement — which quickly turned to impatience. 

"Are we there yet?" I teased, pretending to scowl. 

"Nearly." He smiled at the change in my mood. "Do you see the brightness ahead?" 
I peered into the thick forest. "Urn, should I?" 
He smirked. "Maybe it's a bit soon for your eyes." 

"Time to visit the optometrist," I muttered. His smirk grew more pronounced. 

But then, after another hundred yards, I could definitely see a Ughtening in the trees ahead, a glow that 
was yellow instead of green. I picked up the pace, my eagerness growing with every step. He let me lead 
now, following noiselessly. 

I reached the edge of the pool of light and stepped through the last fringe of ferns into the loveliest place I 
had ever seen. The meadow was small, perfectly round, and filled with wildflowers — violet, yellow, and 
soft white. Somewhere nearby, I could hear the bubbling music of a stream. The sun was directly 
overhead, filling the circle with a haze of buttery sunshine. I walked slowly, awestruck, through the soft 
grass, swaying flowers, and warm, gilded air. I halfway turned, wanting to share this with him, but he 
wasn't behind me where I thought he'd be. I spun around, searching for him with sudden alarm. Finally I 
spotted him, still under the dense shade of the canopy at the edge of the hollow, watching me with 
cautious eyes. Only then did I remember what the beauty of the meadow had driven from my mind — 
the enigma of Edward and the sun, which he'd promised to illustrate for me today. 

I took a step back toward him, my eyes alight with curiosity. His eyes were wary, reluctant. I smiled 
encouragingly and beckoned to him with my hand, taking another step back to him. He held up a hand in 
warning, and I hesitated, rocking back onto my heels. 



Edward seemed to take a deep breath, and then he stepped out into the bright glow of the midday sun. 
13. CONFESSIONS 



Edward in the sunlight was shocking. I couldn't get used to it, though I'd been staring at him all afternoon. 
His skin, white despite the faint flush from yesterday's hunting trip, literally sparkled, like thousands of tiny 
diamonds were embedded in the surface. He lay perfectly still in the grass, his shirt open over his 
sculpted, incandescent chest, his scintillating arms bare. His ghstening, pale lavender lids were shut, 
though of course he didn't sleep. A perfect statue, carved in some unknown stone, smooth like marble, 
glittering like crystal. 

Now and then, his lips would move, so fast it looked like they were trembling. But, when I asked, he told 
me he was singing to himself; it was too low for me to hear. 

I enjoyed the sun, too, though the air wasn't quite dry enough for my taste. I would have liked to he back, 
as he did, and let the sun warm my face. But I stayed curled up, my chin resting on my knees, unwilling to 
take my eyes off him. The wind was gentle; it tangled my hair and ruffled the grass that swayed around 
his motionless form. 

The meadow, so spectacular to me at first, paled next to his magnificence. 

Hesitantiy, always afraid, even now, that he would disappear like a mirage, too beautiful to be real. . . 
hesitantly, I reached out one finger and stroked the back of his shimmering hand, where it lay within my 
reach. I marveled again at the perfect texture, satin smooth, cool as stone. When I looked up again, his 
eyes were open, watching me. Butterscotch today, lighter, warmer after hunting. His quick smile turned 
up the comers of his flawless hps. 

"I don't scare you?" he asked playfully, but I could hear the real curiosity in his soft voice. 
"No more than usual." 

He smiled wider; his teeth flashed in the sun. 

I inched closer, stretched out my whole hand now to trace the contours of his forearm with my fingertips. 
I saw that my fingers trembled, and knew it wouldn't escape his notice. 

"Do you mind?" I asked, for he had closed his eyes again. 

"No," he said without opening his eyes. "You can't imagine how that feels." He sighed. 

I lightly trailed my hand over the perfect muscles of his arm, followed the faint pattern of bluish veins 
inside the crease at his elbow. With my other hand, I reached to turn his hand over. Realizing what I 
wished, he flipped his palm up in one of those blindingly fast, disconcerting movements of his. It startled 
me; my fingers froze on his arm for a brief second. 

"Sorry," he murmured. I looked up in time to see his golden eyes close again. "It's too easy to be myself 
with you." 

I lifted his hand, turning it this way and that as I watched the sun glitter on his palm. I held it closer to my 
face, trying to see the hidden facets in his skin. 



"Tell me what you're thinking," he whispered. I looked to see his eyes watching me, suddenly intent. "It's 
still so strange for me, not knowing." 

"You know, the rest of us feel that way all the time." 

"It's a hard life." Did I imagine the hint of regret in his tone? "But you didn't tell me." 

"I was wishing I could know what you were thinking. . . " I hesitated. 

"And?" 

"I was wishing that I could believe that you were real. And I was wishing that I wasn't afraid." 

"I don't want you to be afraid." His voice was just a soft murmur. I heard what he couldn't truthfully say, 
that I didn't need to be afraid, that there was nothing to fear. 

"Well, that's not exactiy the fear I meant, though that's certainly something to think about." 

So quickly that I missed his movement, he was half sitting, propped up on his right arm, his left palm still 
in my hands. His angel's face was only a few inches from mine. I might have — should have — flinched 
away from his unexpected closeness, but I was unable to move. His golden eyes mesmerized me. 

"What are you afraid of, then?" he whispered intently. 

But I couldn't answer. As I had just that once before, I smelled his cool breath in my face. Sweet, 
delicious, the scent made my mouth water. It was unlike anything else. Instinctively, untliinkingly, I leaned 
closer, inhaling. 

And he was gone, his hand ripped from mine. In the time it took my eyes to focus, he was twenty feet 
away, standing at the edge of the small meadow, in the deep shade of a huge fir tree. He stared at me, his 
eyes dark in the shadows, his expression unreadable. 

I could feel the hurt and shock on my face. My empty hands stung. 

"I'm. . . sorry. . . Edward," I whispered. I knew he could hear. 

"Give me a moment," he called, just loud enough for my less sensitive ears. I sat very still. 

After ten incredibly long seconds, he walked back, slowly for him. He stopped, still several feet away, 
and sank gracefully to the ground, crossing his legs. His eyes never left mine. He took two deep breaths, 
and then smiled in apology. 

"I am so very sorry." He hesitated. "Would you understand what I meant if I said I was only human?" 

I nodded once, not quite able to smile at his joke. Adrenaline pulsed through my veins as the realization 
of danger slowly sank in. He could smell that from where he sat. His smile turned mocking. 

"I'm the world's best predator, aren't I? Everything about me invites you in — my voice, my face, even 
my smell. As if I need any of that!" Unexpectedly, he was on his feet, bounding away, instantiy out of 
sight, only to appear beneath the same tree as before, having circled the meadow in half a second. 

"As if you could outrun me," he laughed bitterly. 

He reached up with one hand and, with a deafening crack, effortlessly ripped a two-foot-thick branch 
from the trunk of the spruce. He balanced it in that hand for a moment, and then threw it with blinding 



speed, shattering it against another huge tree, which shook and trembled at the blow. 
And he was in front of me again, standing two feet away, still as a stone. 
"As if you could fight me off," he said gentiy. 

I sat without moving, more frightened of him than I had ever been. I'd never seen him so completely freed 
of that carefully cultivated facade. He'd never been less human. . . or more beautiful. Face ashen, eyes 
wide, I sat like a bird locked in the eyes of a snake. 

His lovely eyes seem to glow with rash excitement. Then, as the seconds passed, they dimmed. His 
expression slowly folded into a mask of ancient sadness. 

"Don't be afraid," he murmured, his velvet voice unintentionally seductive. "I promise. . . " He hesitated. "I 
swear not to hurt you." He seemed more concerned with convincing himself than me. 

"Don't be afraid," he whispered again as he stepped closer, with exaggerated slowness. He sat sinuously, 
with deliberately unhurried movements, till our faces were on the same level, just a foot apart. 

"Please forgive me," he said formally. "I can control myself. You caught me off guard. But I'm on my best 
behavior now." 

He waited, but I still couldn't speak. 

"I'm not thirsty today, honestiy." He winked. 

At that I had to laugh, though the sound was shaky and breathless. 

"Are you all right?" he asked tenderly, reaching out slowly, carefully, to place his marble hand back in 
mine. 

I looked at his smooth, cold hand, and then at his eyes. They were soft, repentant. I looked back at his 
hand, and then deliberately returned to tracing the lines in his hand with my fingertip. I looked up and 
smiled timidly. 

His answering smile was dazzling. 

"So where were we, before I behaved so rudely?" he asked in the gentle cadences of an earlier century. 
"I honestly can't remember." 

He smiled, but his face was ashamed. "I think we were talking about why you were afraid, besides the 
obvious reason." 

"Oh, right." 

"Well?" 

I looked down at his hand and doodled aimlessly across his smooth, iridescent palm. The seconds ticked 
by. 

"How easily frustrated I am," he sighed. I looked into his eyes, abrupdy grasping that this was every bit as 
new to him as it was to me. As many years of unfathomable experience as he had, this was hard for him, 
too. I took courage from that thought. 



"I was afraid. . . because, for, well, obvious reasons, I can't stay with you. And I'm afraid that I'd like to 
stay with you, much more than I should." I looked down at his hands as I spoke. It was difficult for me to 
say this aloud. 

"Yes," he agreed slowly. "That is something to be afraid of, indeed. Wanting to be with me. That's really 
not in your best interest." 

I frowned. 

"I should have left long ago," he sighed. "I should leave now. But I don't know if I can." 
"I don't want you to leave," I mumbled pathetically, staring down again. 

"Which is exactly why I should. But don't worry. I'm essentially a selfish creature. I crave your company 
too much to do what I should." 

Tmglad." 

"Don't be!" He withdrew his hand, more gently this time; his voice was harsher than usual. Harsh for him, 
still more beautiful than any human voice. It was hard to keep up — his sudden mood changes left me 
always a step behind, dazed. 

"It's not only your company I crave! Never forget that. Never forget I am more dangerous to you than I 
am to anyone else." He stopped, and I looked to see him gazing unseeingly into the forest. 

I thought for a moment. 

"I don't think I understand exactly what you mean — by that last part anyway," I said. 
He looked back at me and smiled, his mood shifting yet again. 

"How do I explain?" he mused. "And without frightening you again. . . lirnmmm." Without seeming to think 
about it, he placed his hand back in mine; I held it tightly in both of mine. He looked at our hands. 

"That's amazingly pleasant, the warmth." He sighed. 

A moment passed as he assembled his thoughts. 

"You know how everyone enjoys different flavors?" he began. "Some people love chocolate ice cream, 
others prefer strawberry?" 

I nodded. 

"Sorry about the food analogy — I couldn't think of another way to explain." 
I smiled. He smiled ruefully back. 

"You see, every person smells different, has a different essence. If you locked an alcoholic in a room full 
of stale beer, he'd gladly drink it. But he could resist, if he wished to, if he were a recovering alcoholic. 
Now let's say you placed in that room a glass of hundred-year-old brandy, the rarest, finest cognac — 
and filled the room with its warm aroma — how do you think he would fare then?" 

We sat silently, looking into each other's eyes — trying to read each other's thoughts. 

He broke the silence first. 



"Maybe that's not the right comparison. Maybe it would be too easy to turn down the brandy. Perhaps I 
should have made our alcoholic a heroin addict instead." 

"So what you're saying is, I'm your brand of heroin?" I teased, trying to lighten the mood. 

He smiled swiftly, seeming to appreciate my effort. "Yes, you are exactly my brand of heroin." 

"Does that happen often?" I asked. 

He looked across the treetops, thinking through his response. 

"I spoke to my brothers about it." He still stared into the distance. "To Jasper, every one of you is much 
the same. He's the most recent to join our family. It's a struggle for him to abstain at all. He hasn't had 
time to grow sensitive to the differences in smell, in flavor." He glanced swiftly at me, his expression 
apologetic. 

"Sorry," he said. 

"I don't mind. Please don't worry about offending me, or frightening me, or whichever. That's the way 
you think. I can understand, or I can try to at least. Just explain however you can." 

He took a deep breath and gazed at the sky again. 

"So Jasper wasn't sure if he'd ever come across someone who was as" — he hesitated, looking for the 
right word — "appealing as you are to me. Which makes me think not. Emmett has been on the wagon 
longer, so to speak, and he understood what I meant. He says twice, for him, once stronger than the 
other." 

"And for you?" 
"Never." 

The word hung there for a moment in the warm breeze. 
"What did Emmett do?" I asked to break the silence. 

It was the wrong question to ask. His face grew dark, his hand clenched into a fist inside mine. He 
looked away. I waited, but he wasn't going to answer. 

"I guess I know," I finally said. 

He lifted his eyes; his expression was wistful, pleading. 

"Even the strongest of us fall off the wagon, don't we?" 

"What are you asking? My permission?" My voice was sharper than I'd intended. I tried to make my 
tone kinder — I could guess what his honesty must cost him. "I mean, is there no hope, then?" How 
calmly I could discuss my own death! 

"No, no!" He was instantly contrite. "Of course there's hope! I mean, of course I won't. . ." He left the 
sentence hanging. His eyes burned into mine. "It's different for us. Emmett. . . these were strangers he 
happened across. It was a long time ago, and he wasn't as. . . practiced, as careful, as he is now." 

He fell silent and watched me intently as I thought it through. 



"So if we'd met. . . oh, in a dark alley or something. . . " I trailed off. 

"It took everything I had not to jump up in the middle of that class full of children and — " He stopped 
abruptiy, looking away. "When you walked past me, I could have ruined everything Carlisle has built for 
us, right then and there. If I hadn't been denying my thirst for the last, well, too many years, I wouldn't 
have been able to stop myself." He paused, scowling at the trees. 

He glanced at me grimly, both of us remembering. "You must have thought I was possessed." 
"I couldn't understand why. How you could hate me so quickly. . ." 

"To me, it was like you were some kind of demon, summoned straight from my own personal hell to ruin 
me. The fragrance coming off your skin. . . I thought it would make me deranged that first day. In that one 
hour, I thought of a hundred different ways to lure you from the room with me, to get you alone. And I 
fought them each back, thinking of my family, what I could do to them. I had to run out, to get away 
before I could speak the words that would make you follow. . . " 

He looked up then at my staggered expression as I tried to absorb his bitter memories. His golden eyes 
scorched from under his lashes, hypnotic and deadly. 

"You would have come," he promised. 

I tried to speak calmly. "Without a doubt." 

He frowned down at my hands, releasing me from the force of his stare. "And then, as I tried to 
rearrange my schedule in a pointiess attempt to avoid you, you were there — in that close, warm littie 
room, the scent was maddening. I so very nearly took you then. There was only one other frail human 
there — so easily dealt with." 

I shivered in the warm sun, seeing my memories anew through his eyes, only now grasping the danger. 
Poor Ms. Cope; I shivered again at how close I'd come to being inadvertently responsible for her death. 

"But I resisted. I don't know how. I forced myself not to wait for you, not to follow you from the school. 
It was easier outside, when I couldn't smell you anymore, to think clearly, to make the right decision. I 
left the others near home — I was too ashamed to tell them how weak I was, they only knew something 
was very wrong — and then I went straight to Carlisle, at the hospital, to tell him I was leaving." 

I stared in surprise. 

"I traded cars with him — he had a full tank of gas and I didn't want to stop. I didn't dare to go home, to 
face Esme. She wouldn't have let me go without a scene. She would have tried to convince me that it 
wasn't necessary... 

"By the next morning I was in Alaska." He sounded ashamed, as if admitting a great cowardice. "I spent 
two days there, with some old acquaintances. . . but I was homesick. I hated knowing I'd upset Esme, 
and the rest of them, my adopted family. In the pure air of the mountains it was hard to believe you were 
so irresistible. I convinced myself it was weak to run away. I'd dealt with temptation before, not of this 
magnitude, not even close, but I was strong. Who were you, an insignificant little girl" — he grinned 
suddenly — "to chase me from the place I wanted to be? So I came back. . . " He stared off into space. 

I couldn't speak. 

"I took precautions, hunting, feeding more than usual before seeing you again. I was sure that I was 
strong enough to treat you like any other human. I was arrogant about it. 



"It was unquestionably a complication that I couldn't simply read your thoughts to know what your 
reaction was to me. I wasn't used to having to go to such circuitous measures, listening to your words in 
Jessica's mind. . . her mind isn't very original, and it was annoying to have to stoop to that. And then I 
couldn't know if you really meant what you said. It was all extremely irritating." He frowned at the 
memory. 

"I wanted you to forget my behavior that first day, if possible, so I tried to talk with you like I would with 
any person. I was eager actually, hoping to decipher some of your thoughts. But you were too interesting, 
I found myself caught up in your expressions . . . and every now and then you would stir the air with your 
hand or your hair, and the scent would stun me again. . . 

"Of course, then you were nearly crushed to death in front of my eyes. Later I thought of a perfectly 
good excuse for why I acted at that moment — because if I hadn't saved you, if your blood had been 
spilled there in front of me, I don't think I could have stopped myself from exposing us for what we are. 
But I only thought of that excuse later. At the time, all I could think was, 'Not her.'" 

He closed his eyes, lost in his agonized confession. I listened, more eager than rational. Common sense 
told me I should be terrified. Instead, I was relieved to finally understand. And I was filled with 
compassion for his suffering, even now, as he confessed his craving to take my life. 

I finally was able to speak, though my voice was faint. "In the hospital?" 

His eyes flashed up to mine. "I was appalled. I couldn't believe I had put us in danger after all, put myself 
in your power — you of all people. As if I needed another motive to kill you." We both flinched as that 
word slipped out. "But it had the opposite effect," he continued quickly. "I fought with Rosalie, Emmett, 
and Jasper when they suggested that now was the time. . . the worst fight we've ever had. Carlisle sided 
with me, and Alice." He grimaced when he said her name. I couldn't imagine why. "Esme told me to do 
whatever I had to in order to stay." He shook his head indulgently. 

"All that next day I eavesdropped on the minds of everyone you spoke to, shocked that you kept your 
word. I didn't understand you at all. But I knew that I couldn't become more involved with you. I did my 
very best to stay as far from you as possible. And every day the perfume of your skin, your breath, your 
hair. . . it hit me as hard as the very first day." 

He met my eyes again, and they were surprisingly tender. 

"And for all that," he continued, "I'd have fared better if I had exposed us all at that first moment, than if 
now, here — with no witnesses and nothing to stop me — I were to hurt you." 

I was human enough to have to ask. "Why?" 

"Isabella." He pronounced my full name carefully, then playfully ruffled my hair with his free hand. A 
shock ran through my body at his casual touch. "Bella, I couldn't live with myself if I ever hurt you. You 
don't know how it's tortured me." He looked down, ashamed again. "The thought of you, still, white, 
cold. . . to never see you blush scarlet again, to never see that flash of intuition in your eyes when you see 
through my pretenses. . . it would be unendurable." He lifted his glorious, agonized eyes to mine. "You are 
the most important thing to me now. The most important thing to me ever." 

My head was spinning at the rapid change in direction our conversation had taken. From the cheerful 
topic of my impending demise, we were suddenly declaring ourselves. He waited, and even though I 
looked down to study our hands between us, I knew his golden eyes were on me. "You already know 
how I feel, of course," I finally said. "I'm here. . . which, roughly translated, means I would rather die than 
stay away from you." I frowned. "I'm an idiot." 



"You are an idiot," he agreed with a laugh. Our eyes met, and I laughed, too. We laughed together at the 
idiocy and sheer impossibility of such a moment. 

"And so the lion fell in love with the lamb ..." he murmured. I looked away, hiding my eyes as I thrilled to 
the word. 

"What a stupid lamb," I sighed. 

"What a sick, masochistic lion." He stared into the shadowy forest for a long moment, and I wondered 
where his thoughts had taken him. 

"Why. . . ?" I began, and then paused, not sure how to continue. 
He looked at me and smiled; sunlight glinted off his face, his teeth. 
"Yes?" 

"Tell me why you ran from me before." 
His smile faded. "You know why." 

"No, I mean, exactly what did I do wrong? I'll have to be on my guard, you see, so I better start learning 
what I shouldn't do. This, for example" — I stroked the back of his hand — "seems to be all right." 

He smiled again. "You didn't do anything wrong, Bella. It was my fault." 

"But I want to help, if I can, to not make this harder for you." 

"Well. . . " He contemplated for a moment. "It was just how close you were. Most humans instinctively shy 
away from us, are repelled by our alienness. . . I wasn't expecting you to come so close. And the smell of 
your throat." He stopped short, looking to see if he'd upset me. 

"Okay, then," I said flippantly, trying to alleviate the suddenly tense atmosphere. I tucked my chin. "No 
throat exposure." 

It worked; he laughed. "No, really, it was more the surprise than anything else." 

He raised his free hand and placed it gently on the side of my neck. I sat very still, the chill of his touch a 
natural warning — a warning telling me to be terrified. But there was no feeling of fear in me. There were, 
however, other feelings. . . 

"You see," he said. "Perfectly fine." 

My blood was racing, and I wished I could slow it, sensing that this must make everything so much more 
difficult — the thudding of my pulse in my veins. Surely he could hear it. 

"The blush on your cheeks is lovely," he murmured. He gently freed his other hand. My hands fell limply 
into my lap. Softly he brushed my cheek, then held my face between his marble hands. 

"Be very still," he whispered, as if I wasn't already frozen. 

Slowly, never moving his eyes from mine, he leaned toward me. Then abruptly, but very gently, he rested 
his cold cheek against the hollow at the base of my throat. I was quite unable to move, even if I'd wanted 
to. I listened to the sound of his even breathing, watching the sun and wind play in his bronze hair, more 
human than any other part of him. 



With deliberate slowness, his hands slid down the sides of my neck. I shivered, and I heard him catch his 
breath. But his hands didn't pause as they softly moved to my shoulders, and then stopped. 

His face drifted to the side, his nose slamming across my collarbone. He came to rest with the side of his 
face pressed tenderly against my chest. 

Listening to my heart. 

"Ah," he sighed. 

I don't know how long we sat without moving. It could have been hours. Eventually the throb of my pulse 
quieted, but he didn't move or speak again as he held me. I knew at any moment it could be too much, 
and my life could end — so quickly that I might not even notice. And I couldn't make myself be afraid. I 
couldn't think of anything, except that he was touching me. 

And then, too soon, he released me. 

His eyes were peaceful. 

"It won't be so hard again," he said with satisfaction. 
"Was that very hard for you?" 

"Not nearly as bad as I imagined it would be. And you?" 
"No, it wasn't bad. . . for me." 
He smiled at my inflection. "You know what I mean." 
I smiled. 

"Here." He took my hand and placed it against his cheek. "Do you feel how warm it is?" 

And it was almost warm, his usually icy skin. But I barely noticed, for I was touching his face, something 
I'd dreamed of constantly since the first day I'd seen him. 

"Don't move," I whispered. 

No one could be still like Edward. He closed his eyes and became as immobile as stone, a carving under 
my hand. 

I moved even more slowly than he had, careful not to make one unexpected move. I caressed his cheek, 
delicately stroked his eyelid, the purple shadow in the hollow under his eye. I traced the shape of his 
perfect nose, and then, so carefully, his flawless hps. His hps parted under my hand, and I could feel his 
cool breath on my fingertips. I wanted to lean in, to inhale the scent of him. So I dropped my hand and 
leaned away, not wanting to push him too far. 

He opened his eyes, and they were hungry. Not in a way to make me fear, but rather to tighten the 
muscles in the pit of my stomach and send my pulse hammering through my veins again. 

"I wish," he whispered, "I wish you could feel the. . . complexity. . . the confusion. . . I feel. That you could 
understand." 

He raised his hand to my hair, then carefully brushed it across my face. 



"Tell me," I breathed. 

"I don't think I can. I've told you, on the one hand, the hunger — the thirst — that, deplorable creature 
that I am, I feel for you. And I think you can understand that, to an extent. Though" — he half-smiled — 
"as you are not addicted to any illegal substances, you probably can't empathize completely. 

"But. . . " His fingers touched my lips lightiy, making me shiver again. "There are other hungers. Hungers I 
don't even understand, that are foreign to me." 

"I may understand that better than you think." 

"I'm not used to feeling so human. Is it always like this?" 

"Forme?" I paused. "No, never. Never before this." 

He held my hands between his. They felt so feeble in his iron strength. 

"I don't know how to be close to you," he admitted. "I don't know if I can." 

I leaned forward very slowly, cautioning him with my eyes. I placed my cheek against his stone chest. I 
could hear his breath, and nothing else. 

"This is enough," I sighed, closing my eyes. 

In a very human gesture, he put his arms around me and pressed his face against my hair. 

"You're better at this than you give yourself credit for," I noted. 

"I have human instincts — they may be buried deep, but they're there." 

We sat like that for another immeasurable moment; I wondered if he could be as unwilling to move as I 
was. But I could see the light was fading, the shadows of the forest beginning to touch us, and I sighed. 

"You have to go." 

"I thought you couldn't read my mind." 

"It's getting clearer." I could hear a smile in his voice. 

He took my shoulders and I looked into his face. 

"Can I show you something?" he asked, sudden excitement flaring in his eyes. 
"Show me what?" 

"I'll show you how / travel in the forest." He saw my expression. "Don't worry, you'll be very safe, and 
we'll get to your truck much faster." His mouth twitched up into that crooked smile so beautiful my heart 
nearly stopped. 

"Will you turn into a bat?" I asked warily. 

He laughed, louder than I'd ever heard. "Like I haven't heard that one before!" 
"Right, I'm sure you get that all the time." 
"Come on, little coward, climb on my back." 



I waited to see if he was kidding, but, apparently, he meant it. He smiled as he read my hesitation, and 
reached for me. My heart reacted; even though he couldn't hear my thoughts, my pulse always gave me 
away. He then proceeded to sling me onto his back, with very little effort on my part, besides, when in 
place, clamping my legs and arms so tightiy around him that it would choke a normal person. It was like 
clinging to a stone. 

"I'm a bit heavier than your average backpack," I warned. 

"Hah!" he snorted. I could almost hear his eyes rolling. I'd never seen him in such high spirits before. 
He startled me, suddenly grabbing my hand, pressing my palm to his face, and inhaling deeply. 
"Easier all the time," he muttered. 
And then he was mrining. 

If I'd ever feared death before in his presence, it was nothing compared to how I felt now. 

He streaked through the dark, thick underbrush of the forest like a bullet, like a ghost. There was no 
sound, no evidence that his feet touched the earth. His breathing never changed, never indicated any 
effort. But the trees flew by at deadly speeds, always missing us by inches. 

I was too terrified to close my eyes, though the cool forest air whipped against my face and burned them. 
I felt as if I were stupidly sticking my head out the window of an airplane in flight. And, for the first time in 
my life, I felt the dizzy faintness of motion sickness. 

Then it was over. We'd hiked hours this morning to reach Edward's meadow, and now, in a matter of 
minutes, we were back to the truck. 

"Exhilarating, isn't it?" His voice was high, excited. 

He stood motionless, waiting for me to climb down. I tried, but my muscles wouldn't respond. My arms 
and legs stayed locked around him while my head spun uncomfortably. 


And he was right there, his face so close to mine. His beauty stunned my mind — it was too much, an 
excess I couldn't grow accustomed to. 

"I was thinking, while I was running. . . " He paused. 

"About not hitting the trees, I hope." 

"Silly Bella," he chuckled. "Running is second nature to me, it's not something I have to think about." 
"Show-off," I muttered again. 
He smiled. 

"No," he continued, "I was thinking there was something I wanted to try." And he took my face in his 
hands again. 

I couldn't breathe. 

He hesitated — not in the normal way, the human way. 

Not the way a man might hesitate before he kissed a woman, to gauge her reaction, to see how he would 
be received. Perhaps he would hesitate to prolong the moment, that ideal moment of anticipation, 
sometimes better than the kiss itself. 

Edward hesitated to test himself, to see if this was safe, to make sure he was still in control of his need. 
And then his cold, marble lips pressed very softly against mine. 
What neither of us was prepared for was my response. 

Blood boiled under my skin, burned in my hps. My breath came in a wild gasp. My fingers knotted in his 
hair, clutching him to me. My lips parted as I breathed in his heady scent. 

Immediately I felt him turn to unresponsive stone beneath my hps. His hands gently, but with irresistible 
force, pushed my face back. I opened my eyes and saw his guarded expression. 

"Oops," I breathed. 


Billy Pilgrim heard all this while lying in his nest. He looked not at the Englishman's 
face but his ankles. 

'I envy you lads,' said the Englishman. 

Somebody laughed. Billy wondered what the joke was. 

'You lads are leaving this afternoon for Dresden-a beautiful city., I'm told. You won’t 
be cooped up like us. You'll be out where the life is, and the food is certain to be more 
plentiful than here. If I may inject a personal note: It has been five years now since I have 
seen a tree or flower or woman or child-or a dog or a cat or a place of entertainment, or a 
human being doing useful work of any kind. 

'You needn’t worry about bombs, by the way. Dresden is an open city. It is undefended, 
and contains no war industries or troop concentrations of any importance.’ 

Somewhere in there, old Edgar Derby was elected head American. The Englishman 
called for nominations from the floor, and there weren’t any. So he nominated Derby, 
praising him for his maturity and long experience in dealing with people. There were no 
further nominations, so the nominations were closed. 

'All in favor?’ 

"That's an understatement." 

His eyes were wild, his jaw clenched in acute restraint, yet he didn't lapse from his perfect articulation. 
He held my face just inches from his. He dazzled my eyes. 

"Should I. . . ?" I tried to disengage myself, to give him some room. 

His hands refused to let me move so much as an inch. 

"No, it's tolerable. Wait for a moment, please." His voice was polite, controlled. 
I kept my eyes on his, watched as the excitement in them faded and gentled. 
Then he smiled a surprisingly impish grin. 
"There," he said, obviously pleased with himself. 
"Tolerable?" I asked. 

He laughed aloud. "I'm stronger than I thought. It's nice to know." 

"I wish I could say the same. I'm sorry." 

"You are only human, after all." 

"Thanks so much," I said, my voice acerbic. 

He was on his feet in one of his lithe, almost invisibly quick movements. He held out his hand to me, an 
unexpected gesture. I was so used to our standard of careful non-contact. I took his icy hand, needing 
the support more than I thought. My balance had not yet returned. 

"Are you still faint from the run? Or was it my kissing expertise?" How Ughthearted, how human he 
seemed as he laughed now, his seraphic face untroubled. He was a different Edward than the one I had 
known. And I felt all the more besotted by him. It would cause me physical pain to be separated from 
him now. 

"I can't be sure, I'm still woozy," I managed to respond. "I think it's some of both, though." 
"Maybe you should let me drive." 
"Are you insane?" I protested. 

"I can drive better than you on your best day," he teased. "You have much slower reflexes." 
"I'm sure that's true, but I don't think my nerves, or my truck, could take it." 
"Some trust, please, Bella." 

My hand was in my pocket, curled tightly around the key. I pursed my hps, deliberated, then shook my 
head with a tight grin. 

"Nope. Not a chance." 

He raised his eyebrows in disbelief. 

I started to step around him, heading for the driver's side. He might have let me pass if I hadn't wobbled 



slightly. Then again, he might not have. His arm created an inescapable snare around my waist. 

"Bella, I've already expended a great deal of personal effort at this point to keep you alive. I'm not about 
to let you behind the wheel of a vehicle when you can't even walk straight. Besides, friends don't let 
friends drive drunk," he quoted with a chuckle. I could smell the unbearably sweet fragrance corning off 
his chest. 

"Drunk?" I objected. 

"You're intoxicated by my very presence." He was grinning that playful smirk again. 

"I can't argue with that," I sighed. There was no way around it; I couldn't resist him in anything. I held the 
key high and dropped it, watching his hand flash like Ughtning to catch it soundlessly. "Take it easy — my 
truck is a senior citizen." 

"Very sensible," he approved. 

"And are you not affected at all?" I asked, irked. "By my presence?" 

Again his mobile features transformed, his expression became soft, warm. He didn't answer at first; he 
simply bent his face to mine, and brushed his lips slowly along my jaw, from my ear to my chin, back and 
forth. I trembled. 

"Regardless," he finally murmured, "I have better reflexes." 
14. MIND OVER MATTER 



He could drive well, when he kept the speed reasonable, I had to admit. Like so many things, it seemed 
to be effortless to him. He barely looked at the road, yet the tires never deviated so much as a centimeter 
from the center of the lane. He drove one-handed, holding my hand on the seat. Sometimes he gazed into 
the setting sun, sometimes he glanced at me — my face, my hair blowing out the open window, our 
hands twined together. 

He had turned the radio to an oldies station, and he sang along with a song I'd never heard. He knew 
every line. 

"You like fifties music?" I asked. 

"Music in the fifties was good. Much better than the sixties, or the seventies, ugh!" He shuddered. "The 
eighties were bearable." 

"Are you ever going to tell me how old you are?" I asked, tentative, not wanting to upset his buoyant 
humor. 

"Does it matter much?" His smile, to my relief, remained unclouded. 

"No, but I still wonder. . . " I grimaced. "There's nothing like an unsolved mystery to keep you up at night." 
"I wonder if it will upset you," he reflected to himself. He gazed into the sun; the minutes passed. 



"Try me," I finally said. 



He sighed, and then looked into my eyes, seeming to forget the road completely for a time. Whatever he 
saw there must have encouraged him. He looked into the sun — the light of the setting orb glittered off 
his skin in ruby-tinged sparkles — and spoke. 

"I was born in Chicago in 1901." He paused and glanced at me from the corner of his eyes. My face was 
carefully unsurprised, patient for the rest. He smiled a tiny smile and continued. "Carlisle found me in a 
hospital in the summer of 1918. 1 was seventeen, and dying of the Spanish influenza." 

He heard my intake of breath, though it was barely audible to my own ears. He looked down into my 
eyes again. 

"I don't remember it well — it was a very long time ago, and human memories fade." He was lost in his 
thoughts for a short time before he went on. "I do remember how it felt, when Carlisle saved me. It's not 
an easy thing, not something you could forget." 

"Your parents?" 

"They had already died from the disease. I was alone. That was why he chose me. In all the chaos of the 
epidemic, no one would ever realize I was gone." 

"How did he. . . save you?" 

A few seconds passed before he answered. He seemed to choose his words carefully. 

"It was difficult. Not many of us have the restraint necessary to accomplish it. But Carlisle has always 
been the most humane, the most compassionate of us. . . I don't think you could find his equal throughout 
all of history." He paused. "For me, it was merely very, very painful." 

I could tell from the set of his lips, he would say no more on this subject. I suppressed my curiosity, 
though it was far from idle. There were many things I needed to think through on this particular issue, 
things that were only beginning to occur to me. No doubt his quick mind had already comprehended 
every aspect that eluded me. 

His soft voice interrupted my thoughts. "He acted from loneliness. That's usually the reason behind the 
choice. I was the first in Carlisle's family, though he found Esme soon after. She fell from a cliff. They 
brought her straight to the hospital morgue, though, somehow, her heart was still beating." 

"So you must be dying, then, to become. . . " We never said the word, and I couldn't frame it now. 

"No, that's just Carlisle. He would never do that to someone who had another choice." The respect in his 
voice was profound whenever he spoke of his father figure. "It is easier he says, though," he continued, "if 
the blood is weak." He looked at the now-dark road, and I could feel the subject closing again. 

"And Emmett and Rosalie?" 

"Carlisle brought Rosalie to our family next. I didn't realize till much later that he was hoping she would be 
to me what Esme was to him — he was careful with his thoughts around me." He rolled his eyes. "But 
she was never more than a sister. It was only two years later that she found Emmett. She was hunting — 
we were in Appalachia at the time — and found a bear about to finish him off. She carried him back to 
Carlisle, more than a hundred miles, afraid she wouldn't be able to do it herself. I'm only beginning to 
guess how difficult that journey was for her." He threw a pointed glance in my direction, and raised our 
hands, still folded together, to brush my cheek with the back of his hand. 

"But she made it," I encouraged, looking away from the unbearable beauty of his eyes. 



"Yes," he murmured. "She saw something in his face that made her strong enough. And they've been 
together ever since. Sometimes they live separately from us, as a married couple. But the younger we 
pretend to be, the longer we can stay in any given place. Forks seemed perfect, so we all enrolled in high 
school." He laughed. "I suppose we'll have to go to their wedding in a few years, again." 

"Alice and Jasper?" 

"Alice and Jasper are two very rare creatures. They both developed a conscience, as we refer to it, with 
no outside guidance. Jasper belonged to another. . . family, a very different kind of family. He became 
depressed, and he wandered on his own. Alice found him. Like me, she has certain gifts above and 
beyond the norm for our kind." 

"Really?" I interrupted, fascinated. "But you said you were the only one who could hear people's 
thoughts." 

"That's true. She knows other things. She sees things — things that might happen, things that are corning. 
But it's very subjective. The future isn't set in stone. Things change." 

His jaw set when he said that, and his eyes darted to my face and away so quickly that I wasn't sure if I 
only imagined it. 

"What kinds of things does she see?" 

"She saw Jasper and knew that he was looking for her before he knew it himself. She saw Carlisle and 
our family, and they came together to find us. She's most sensitive to non-humans. She always sees, for 
example, when another group of our kind is corning near. And any threat they may pose." 

"Are there a lot of. . . your kind?" I was surprised. How many of them could walk among us undetected? 

"No, not many. But most won't settle in any one place. Only those like us, who've given up hunting you 
people" — a sly glance in my direction — "can live together with humans for any length of time. We've 
only found one other family like ours, in a small village in Alaska. We lived together for a time, but there 
were so many of us that we became too noticeable. Those of us who live. . . differently tend to band 
together." 

"And the others?" 

"Nomads, for the most part. We've all lived that way at times. It gets tedious, like anything else. But we 
run across the others now and then, because most of us prefer the North." 

"Why is that?" 

We were parked in front of my house now, and he'd turned off the truck. It was very quiet and dark; 
there was no moon. The porch light was off so I knew my father wasn't home yet. 

"Did you have your eyes open this afternoon?" he teased. "Do you think I could walk down the street in 
the sunlight without causing traffic accidents? There's a reason why we chose the Olympic Peninsula, one 
of the most sunless places in the world. It's nice to be able to go outside in the day. You wouldn't believe 
how tired you can get of nighttime in eighty-odd years." 

"So that's where the legends came from?" 



"Probably." 



"And Alice came from another family, like Jasper?" 

"No, and that is a mystery. Alice doesn't remember her human life at all. And she doesn't know who 
created her. She awoke alone. Whoever made her walked away, and none of us understand why, or 
how, he could. If she hadn't had that other sense, if she hadn't seen Jasper and Carlisle and known that 
she would someday become one of us, she probably would have turned into a total savage." 

There was so much to think through, so much I still wanted to ask. But, to my great embarrassment, my 
stomach growled. I'd been so intrigued, I hadn't even noticed I was hungry. I realized now that I was 
ravenous. 

"I'm sorry, I'm keeping you from dinner." 
Tm fine, really." 

"I've never spent much time around anyone who eats food. I forget." 

"I want to stay with you." It was easier to say in the darkness, knowing as I spoke how my voice would 
betray me, my hopeless addiction to him. 

"Can't I come in?" he asked. 

"Would you like to?" I couldn't picture it, this godlike creature sitting in my father's shabby kitchen chair. 

"Yes, if it's all right." I heard the door close quietly, and almost simultaneously he was outside my door, 
opening it for me. 

"Very human," I complimented him. 
"It's definitely resurfacing." 

He walked beside me in the night, so quietly I had to peek at him constantly to be sure he was still there. 
In the darkness he looked much more normal. Still pale, still dreamlike in his beauty, but no longer the 
fantastic sparkling creature of our sunlit afternoon. 

He reached the door ahead of me and opened it for me. I paused halfway through the frame. 

"The door was unlocked?" 

"No, I used the key from under the eave." 

I stepped inside, flicked on the porch light, and turned to look at him with my eyebrows raised. I was 
sure I'd never used that key in front of him. 

"I was curious about you." 

"You spied on me?" But somehow I couldn't infuse my voice with the proper outrage. I was flattered. 
He was unrepentant. "What else is there to do at night?" 

I let it go for the moment and went down the hall to the kitchen. He was there before me, needing no 
guide. He sat in the very chair I'd tried to picture him in. His beauty lit up the kitchen. It was a moment 
before I could look away. 

I concentrated on getting my dinner, taking last night's lasagna from the fridge, placing a square on a 



plate, heating it in the microwave. It revolved, filling the kitchen with the smell of tomatoes and oregano. I 
didn't take my eyes from the plate of food as I spoke. 

"How often?" I asked casually. 

"Hmmm?" He sounded as if I had pulled him from some other train of thought. 
I still didn't turn around. "How often did you come here?" 
"I come here almost every night." 
I whirled, stunned. "Why?" 

"You're interesting when you sleep." He spoke matter-of-factly. "You talk." 

"No!" I gasped, heat flooding my face all the way to my hairline. I gripped the kitchen counter for 
support. I knew I talked in my sleep, of course; my mother teased me about it. I hadn't thought it was 
something I needed to worry about here, though. 

His expression shifted instantiy to chagrin. "Are you very angry with me?" 

"That depends!" I felt and sounded like I'd had the breath knocked out of me. 

He waited. 

"On?" he urged. 

"What you heard!" I wailed. 

Instantly, silently, he was at my side, taking my hands carefully in his. 

"Don't be upset!" he pleaded. He dropped his face to the level of my eyes, holding my gaze. I was 
embarrassed. I tried to look away. 

"You miss your mother," he whispered. "You worry about her. And when it rains, the sound makes you 
restless. You used to talk about home a lot, but it's less often now. Once you said, It's too green. "' He 
laughed softly, hoping, I could see, not to offend me further. 

"Anything else?" I demanded. 

He knew what I was getting at. "You did say my name," he admitted. 

I sighed in defeat. "A lot?" 

"How much do you mean by 'a lot,' exactly?" 

"Oh no!" I hung my head. 

He pulled me against his chest, softly, naturally. 

"Don't be self-conscious," he whispered in my ear. "If I could dream at all, it would be about you. And 
I'm not ashamed of it." 

Then we both heard the sound of tires on the brick driveway, saw the headlights flash through the front 
windows, down the hall to us. I stiffened in his arms. 



"Should your father know I'm here?" he asked. 
"I'm not sure. . . " I tried to think it through quickly. 
"Another time then. . . " 
And I was alone. 
"Edward!" I hissed. 

I heard a ghostiy chuckle, then nothing else. 
My father's key turned in the door. 

"Bella?" he called. It had bothered me before; who else would it be? Suddenly he didn't seem so far off 
base. 

"In here." I hoped he couldn't hear the hysterical edge to my voice. I grabbed my dinner from the 
microwave and sat at the table as he walked in. His footsteps sounded so noisy after my day with 
Edward. 

"Can you get me some of that? I'm bushed." He stepped on the heels of his boots to take them off, 
holding the back of Edward's chair for support. 

I took my food with me, scarfing it down as I got his dinner. It burned my tongue. I filled two glasses with 
milk while his lasagna was heating, and gulped mine to put out the fire. As I set the glass down, I noticed 
the milk trembling and realized my hand was shaking. Charlie sat in the chair, and the contrast between 
him and its former occupant was comical. 

"Thanks," he said as I placed his food on the table. 

"How was your day?" I asked. The words were rushed; I was dying to escape to my room. 

"Good. The fish were biting. . . how about you? Did you get everything done that you wanted to?" 

"Not really — it was too nice out to stay indoors." I took another big bite. 

"It was a nice day," he agreed. What an understatement, I thought to myself. 

Finished with the last bite of lasagna, I lifted my glass and chugged the remains of my milk. 

Charlie surprised me by being observant. "In a hurry?" 

"Yeah, I'm tired. I'm going to bed early." 

"You look kinda keyed up," he noted. Why, oh why, did this have to be his night to pay attention? 

"Do I?" was all I could manage in response. I quickly scrubbed my dishes clean in the sink, and placed 
them upside down on a dish towel to dry. 

"It's Saturday," he mused. 

I didn't respond. 

"No plans tonight?" he asked suddenly. 



"No, Dad, I just want to get some sleep." 

"None of the boys in town your type, eh?" He was suspicious, but trying to play it cool. 

"No, none of the boys have caught my eye yet." I was careful not to over-emphasize the word boys in 
my quest to be truthful with Charlie. 

"I thought maybe that Mike Newton. . . you said he was friendly." 
"He's Just a friend, Dad." 

"Well, you're too good for them all, anyway. Wait till you get to college to start looking." Every father's 
dream, that his daughter will be out of the house before the hormones kick in. 

"Sounds like a good idea to me," I agreed as I headed up the stairs. 

'"Night, honey," he called after me. No doubt he would be listening carefully all evening, waiting for me to 
try to sneak out. 

"See you in the morning, Dad." See you creeping into my room tonight at midnight to check on me. 

I worked to make my tread sound slow and tired as I walked up the stairs to my room. I shut the door 
loud enough for him to hear, and then sprinted on my tiptoes to the window. I threw it open and leaned 
out into the night. My eyes scanned the darkness, the impenetrable shadows of the trees. 

"Edward?" I whispered, feeling completely idiotic. 

The quiet, laughing response came from behind me. "Yes?" 

I whirled, one hand flying to my throat in surprise. 

He lay, smiling hugely, across my bed, his hands behind his head, his feet dangling off the end, the picture 
of ease. 

"Oh!" I breathed, sinking unsteadily to the floor. 

"I'm sorry." He pressed his hps together, trying to hide his amusement. 

"Just give me a minute to restart my heart." 

He sat up slowly, so as not to startle me again. Then he leaned forward and reached out with his long 
arms to pick me up, gripping the tops of my arms like I was a toddler. He sat me on the bed beside him. 

"Why don't you sit with me," he suggested, putting a cold hand on mine. "How's the heart?" 

"You tell me — I'm sure you hear it better than I do." 

I felt his quiet laughter shake the bed. 

We sat there for a moment in silence, both listening to my heartbeat slow. I thought about having Edward 
in my room, with my father in the house. 

"Can I have a minute to be human?" I asked. 

"Certainly." He gestured with one hand that I should proceed. 



"Stay," I said, trying to look severe. 

"Yes, ma'am." And he made a show of becoming a statue on the edge of my bed. 

I hopped up, grabbing my pajamas from off the floor, my bag of toiletries off the desk. I left the light off 
and slipped out, closing the door. 

I could hear the sound from the TV rising up the stairs. I banged the bathroom door loudly, so Charlie 
wouldn't come up to bother me. 

I meant to hurry. I brushed my teeth fiercely, trying to be thorough and speedy, removing all traces of 
lasagna. But the hot water of the shower couldn't be rushed. It unknotted the muscles in my back, calmed 
my pulse. The familiar smell of my shampoo made me feel like I might be the same person I had been this 
morning. I tried not to think of Edward, sitting in my room, waiting, because then I had to start all over 
with the calming process. Finally, I couldn't delay anymore. I shut off the water, toweling hastily, rushing 
again. I pulled on my holey t-shirt and gray sweatpants. Too late to regret not packing the Victoria's 
Secret silk pajamas my mother got me two birthdays ago, which still had the tags on them in a drawer 
somewhere back home. 

I rubbed the towel through my hair again, and then yanked the brush through it quickly. I threw the towel 
in the hamper, flung my brush and toothpaste into my bag. Then I dashed down the stairs so Charlie 
could see that I was in my pajamas, with wet hair. 

'"Night, Dad." 

'"Night, Bella." He did look startled by my appearance. Maybe that would keep him from checking on 
me tonight. 

I took the stairs two at a time, trying to be quiet, and flew into my room, closing the door tightly behind 
me. 

Edward hadn't moved a fraction of an inch, a carving of Adonis perched on my faded quilt. I smiled, and 
his hps twitched, the statue coming to life. 

His eyes appraised me, taking in the damp hair, the tattered shirt. He raised one eyebrow. "Nice." 
I grimaced. 

"No, it looks good on you." 

"Thanks," I whispered. I went back to his side, sitting cross-legged beside him. I looked at the lines in the 
wooden floor. 

"What was all that for?" 

"Charlie thinks I'm sneaking out." 

"Oh." He contemplated that. "Why?" As if he couldn't know Charlie's mind much more clearly than I 
could guess. 

"Apparently, I look a little overexcited." 
He lifted my chin, examining my face. 



"You look very warm, actually." 



He bent his face slowly to mine, laying his cool cheek against my skin. I held perfectly still. 
''Mmmmmm. . . " he breathed. 

It was very difficult, while he was touching me, to frame a coherent question. It took me a minute of 
scattered concentration to begin. 

"It seems to be. . . much easier for you, now, to be close to me." 

"Does it seem that way to you?" he murmured, his nose gliding to the comer of my jaw. I felt his hand, 
lighter than a moth's wing, brushing my damp hair back, so that his hps could touch the hollow beneath 
my ear. 

"Much, much easier," I said, trying to exhale. 
"Hmm" 

"So I was wondering. . . " I began again, but his fingers were slowly tracing my collarbone, and I lost my 
train of thought. 

"Yes?" he breathed. 

"Why is that," my voice shook, embarrassing me, "do you think?" 

I felt the tremor of his breath on my neck as he laughed. "Mind over matter." 

I pulled back; as I moved, he froze — and I could no longer hear the sound of his breathing. 

We stared cautiously at each other for a moment, and then, as his clenched jaw gradually relaxed, his 
expression became puzzled. 

"Did I do something wrong?" 

"No — the opposite. You're driving me crazy," I explained. 

He considered that briefly, and when he spoke, he sounded pleased. "Really?" A triumphant smile slowly 
lit his face. 

"Would you like a round of applause?" I asked sarcastically. 
He grinned. 

"I'm just pleasantly surprised," he clarified. "In the last hundred years or so," his voice was teasing, "I 
never imagined anything like this. I didn't believe I would ever find someone I wanted to be with. . . in 
another way than my brothers and sisters. And then to find, even though it's all new to me, that I'm good 
at it. . . at being with you. . . " 

"You're good at everything," I pointed out. 

He shrugged, allowing that, and we both laughed in whispers. 

"But how can it be so easy now?" I pressed. "This afternoon. . ." 

"It's not easy," he sighed. "But this afternoon, I was still. . . undecided. I am sorry about that, it was 
unforgivable for me to behave so." 



"Not unforgivable," I disagreed. 



"Thank you." He smiled. "You see," he continued, looking down now, "I wasn't sure if I was strong 
enough. . . " He picked up one of my hands and pressed it tightly to his face. "And while there was still that 
possibility that I might be. . . overcome" — he breathed in the scent at my wrist — "I was. . . susceptible. 
Until I made up my mind that I was strong enough, that there was no possibility at all that I would. . . that 
I ever could..." 

I'd never seen him struggle so hard for words. It was so. . . human. 
"So there's no possibility now?" 

"Mind over matter," he repeated, smiling, his teeth bright even in the darkness. 
"Wow, that was easy," I said. 

He threw back his head and laughed, quietly as a whisper, but still exuberantly. 
"Easy for you !" he amended, touching my nose with his fingertip. 
And then his face was abruptly serious. 

"I'm trying," he whispered, his voice pained. "If it gets to be. . . too much, I'm fairly sure I'll be able to 
leave." 

I scowled. I didn't like the talk of leaving. 

"And it will be harder tomorrow," he continued. "I've had the scent of you in my head all day, and I've 
grown amazingly desensitized. If I'm away from you for any length of time, I'll have to start over again. 
Not quite from scratch, though, I think." 

"Don't go away, then," I responded, unable to hide the longing in my voice. 

"That suits me," he replied, his face relaxing into a gentle smile. "Bring on the shackles — I'm your 
prisoner." But his long hands formed manacles around my wrists as he spoke. He laughed his quiet, 
musical laugh. He'd laughed more tonight than I'd ever heard in all the time I'd spent with him. 

"You seem more. . . optimistic than usual," I observed. "I haven't seen you like this before." 

"Isn't it supposed to be like this?" He smiled. "The glory of first love, and all that. It's incredible, isn't it, 
the difference between reading about something, seeing it in the pictures, and experiencing it?" 

"Very different," I agreed. "More forceful than I'd imagined." 

"For example" — his words flowed swiftly now, I had to concentrate to catch it all — "the emotion of 
jealousy. I've read about it a hundred thousand times, seen actors portray it in a thousand different plays 
and movies. I believed I understood that one pretty clearly. But it shocked me. . . " He grimaced. "Do you 
remember the day that Mike asked you to the dance?" 

I nodded, though I remembered that day for a different reason. "The day you started talking to me again." 

"I was surprised by the flare of resentment, almost fury, that I felt — I didn't recognize what it was at 
first. I was even more aggravated than usual that I couldn't know what you were thinking, why you 
refused him. Was it simply for your friend's sake? Was there someone else? I knew I had no right to care 
either way. I tried not to care. 



"And then the line started forming,'' he chuckled. I scowled in the darkness. 

"I waited, unreasonably anxious to hear what you would say to them, to watch your expressions. I 
couldn't deny the relief I felt, watching the annoyance on your face. But I couldn't be sure. 

"That was the first night I came here. I wrestled all night, while watching you sleep, with the chasm 
between what I knew was right, moral, ethical, and what I wanted. I knew that if I continued to ignore 
you as I should, or if I left for a few years, till you were gone, that someday you would say yes to Mike, 
or someone like him. It made me angry. 

"And then," he whispered, "as you were sleeping, you said my name. You spoke so clearly, at first I 
thought you'd woken. But you rolled over restlessly and mumbled my name once more, and sighed. The 
feeling that coursed through me then was unnerving, staggering. And I knew I couldn't ignore you any 
longer." He was silent for a moment, probably listening to the suddenly uneven pounding of my heart. 

"But jealousy. . . it's a strange thing. So much more powerful than I would have thought. And irrational! 
Just now, when Charlie asked you about that vile Mike Newton. . ." He shook his head angrily. 

"I should have known you'd be listening," I groaned. 

"Of course." 

"That made you feel jealous, though, really?" 

"I'm new at this; you're resurrecting the human in me, and everything feels stronger because it's fresh." 

"But honestiy," I teased, "for that to bother you, after I have to hear that Rosalie — Rosalie, the 
incarnation of pure beauty, Rosalie — was meant for you. Emmett or no Emmett, how can I compete 
with that?" 

"There's no competition." His teeth gleamed. He drew my trapped hands around his back, holding me to 
his chest. I kept as still as I could, even breathing with caution. 

"I know there's no competition," I mumbled into his cold skin. "That's the problem." 

"Of course Rosalie is beautiful in her way, but even if she wasn't like a sister to me, even if Emmett didn't 
belong with her, she could never have one tenth, no, one hundredth of the attraction you hold for me." He 
was serious now, thoughtful. "For almost ninety years I've walked among my kind, and yours. .. all the 
time tliinking I was complete in myself, not realizing what I was seeking. And not finding anything, 
because you weren't alive yet." 

"It hardly seems fair," I whispered, my face still resting on his chest, listening to his breath come and go. "I 
haven't had to wait at all. Why should I get off so easily?" 

"You're right," he agreed with amusement. "I should make this harder for you, definitely." He freed one of 
his hands, released my wrist, only to gather it carefully into his other hand. He stroked my wet hair softly, 
from the top of my head to my waist. "You only have to risk your life every second you spend with me, 
that's surely not much. You only have to turn your back on nature, on humanity. . . what's that worth?" 

"Very Utile — I don't feel deprived of anything." 

"Not yet." And his voice was abruptiy full of ancient grief. 

I tried to pull back, to look in his face, but his hand locked my wrists in an unbreakable hold. 



"What — " I started to ask, when his body became alert. I froze, but he suddenly released my hands, and 
disappeared. I narrowly avoided falling on my face. 

"Lie down!" he hissed. I couldn't tell where he spoke from in the darkness. 

I rolled under my quilt, balling up on my side, the way I usually slept. I heard the door crack open, as 
Charlie peeked in to make sure I was where I was supposed to be. I breathed evenly, exaggerating the 
movement. 

A long minute passed. I listened, not sure if I'd heard the door close. Then Edward's cool arm was 
around me, under the covers, his lips at my ear. 

"You are a terrible actress — I'd say that career path is out for you." 

"Dam it," I muttered. My heart was crashing in my chest. 

He hummed a melody I didn't recognize; it sounded like a lullaby. 

He paused. "Should I sing you to sleep?" 

"Right," I laughed. "Like I could sleep with you here!" 

"You do it all the time," he reminded me. 

"But I didn't know you were here," I replied icily. 

"So if you don't want to sleep. . ." he suggested, ignoring my tone. My breath caught. 

"If I don't want to sleep... ?" 

He chuckled. "What do you want to do then?" 

I couldn't answer at first. 

"I'm not sure," I finally said. 

"Tell me when you decide." 

I could feel his cool breath on my neck, feel his nose sliding along my jaw, inhaling. 
"I thought you were desensitized." 

"Just because I'm resisting the wine doesn't mean I can't appreciate the bouquet," he whispered. "You 
have a very floral smell, like lavender. . . or freesia," he noted. "It's mouthwatering." 

"Yeah, it's an off day when I don't get somebody telling me how edible I smell." 

He chuckled, and then sighed. 

"I've decided what I want to do," I told him. "I want to hear more about you." 
"Ask me anything." 

I sifted through my questions for the most vital. "Why do you do it?" I said. "I still don't understand how 
you can work so hard to resist what you. . . are. Please don't misunderstand, of course I'm glad that you 
do. I just don't see why you would bother in the first place." 



He hesitated before answering. "That's a good question, and you are not the first one to ask it. The others 
— the majority of our kind who are quite content with our lot — they, too, wonder at how we live. But 
you see, just because we've been. . . dealt a certain hand. . . it doesn't mean that we can't choose to rise 
above — to conquer the boundaries of a destiny that none of us wanted. To try to retain whatever 
essential humanity we can." 

I lay unmoving, locked in awed silence. 

"Did you fall asleep?" he whispered after a few minutes. 

"No." 

"Is that all you were curious about?" 
I rolled my eyes. "Not quite." 
"What else do you want to know?" 

"Why can you read minds — why only you? And Alice, seeing the future. . . why does that happen?" 

I felt him shrug in the darkness. "We don't really know. Carlisle has a theory. . . he believes that we all 
bring something of our strongest human traits with us into the next life, where they are intensified — like 
our minds, and our senses. He thinks that I must have already been very sensitive to the thoughts of those 
around me. And that Alice had some precognition, wherever she was." 

"What did he bring into the next life, and the others?" 

"Carlisle brought his compassion. Esme brought her ability to love passionately. Emmett brought his 
strength, Rosalie her. . . tenacity. Or you could call it pigheadedness." he chuckled. "Jasper is very 
interesting. He was quite charismatic in his first life, able to influence those around him to see things his 
way. Now he is able to manipulate the emotions of those around him — calm down a room of angry 
people, for example, or excite a lethargic crowd, conversely. It's a very subtle gift." 

I considered the impossibilities he described, trying to take it in. He waited patiently while I thought. 

"So where did it all start? I mean, Carlisle changed you, and then someone must have changed him, and 
so on..." 

"Well, where did you come from? Evolution? Creation? Couldn't we have evolved in the same way as 
other species, predator and prey? Or, if you don't believe that all this world could have just happened on 
its own, which is hard for me to accept myself, is it so hard to believe that the same force that created the 
delicate angelfish with the shark, the baby seal and the killer whale, could create both our kinds 
together?" 

"Let me get this straight — I'm the baby seal, right?" 

"Right." He laughed, and something touched my hair — his hps? 

I wanted to turn toward him, to see if it was really his hps against my hair. But I had to be good; I didn't 
want to make this any harder for him than it already was. 

"Are you ready to sleep?" he asked, interrupting the short silence. "Or do you have any more questions?" 
"Only a million or two." 



"We have tomorrow, and the next day, and the next. . . " he reminded me. I smiled, euphoric at the 
thought 

"Are you sure you won't vanish in the morning?" I wanted this to be certain. "You are mythical, after all." 
"I won't leave you." His voice had the seal of a promise in it. 

"One more, then, tonight. . . " And I blushed. The darkness was no help — I'm sure he could feel the 
sudden warmth under my skin. 

"What is it?" 

"No, forget it. I changed my mind." 
"Bella, you can ask me anything." 
I didn't answer, and he groaned. 

"I keep thinking it will get less frustrating, not hearing your thoughts. But it just gets worse and worse!' 
"I'm glad you can't read my thoughts. It's bad enough that you eavesdrop on my sleep-talking." 
"Please?" His voice was so persuasive, so impossible to resist. 
I shook my head. 

"If you don't tell me, I'll just assume it's something much worse than it is," he threatened darkly. "Please?" 
Again, that pleading voice. 

"Well," I began, glad that he couldn't see my face. 

"Yes?" 

"You said that Rosalie and Emmett will get married soon. . . Is that. . . marriage. . . the same as it is for 
humans?" 

He laughed in earnest now, understanding. "Is that what you're getting at?" 
I fidgeted, unable to answer. 

"Yes, I suppose it is much the same," he said. "I told you, most of those human desires are there, just 
hidden behind more powerful desires." 

"Oh," was all I could say. 

"Was there a purpose behind your curiosity?" 

"Well, I did wonder. . . about you and me. . . someday. . . " 

He was instantly serious, I could tell by the sudden stillness of his body. I froze, too, reacting 
automatically. 

"I don't think that. . . that. . . would be possible for us." 
"Because it would be too hard for you, if I were that. . . close?" 



"That's certainly a problem. But that's not what I was thinking of. It's just that you are so soft, so fragile. I 
have to mind my actions every moment that we're together so that I don't hurt you. I could kill you quite 
easily, Bella, simply by accident." His voice had become just a soft murmur. He moved his icy palm to 
rest it against my cheek. "If I was too hasty. . . if for one second I wasn't paying enough attention, I could 
reach out, meaning to touch your face, and crush your skull by mistake. You don't realize how incredibly 
breakable you are. I can never, never afford to lose any kind of control when I'm with you." 

He waited for me to respond, growing anxious when I didn't. "Are you scared?" he asked. 

I waited for a minute to answer, so the words would be true. "No. I'm fine." 

He seemed to deliberate for a moment. "I'm curious now, though," he said, his voice light again. "Have 
you ever. . . ?" He trailed off suggestively. 

"Of course not." I flushed. "I told you I've never felt like this about anyone before, not even close." 

"I know. It's just that I know other people's thoughts. I know love and lust don't always keep the same 
company." 

"They do for me. Now, anyway, that they exist for me at all," I sighed. 

"That's nice. We have that one thing in common, at least." He sounded satisfied. 

"Your human instincts. . ." I began. He waited. "Well, do you find me attractive, in that way, at all?" 

He laughed and lightly rumpled my nearly dry hair. 

"I may not be a human, but I am a man," he assured me. 

I yawned involuntarily. 

"I've answered your questions, now you should sleep," he insisted. 
"I'm not sure if I can." 
"Do you want me to leave?" 
"No!" I said too loudly. 

He laughed, and then began to hum that same, unfamiUar lullaby; the voice of an archangel, soft in my ear. 

More tired than I realized, exhausted from the long day of mental and emotional stress like I'd never felt 
before, I drifted to sleep in his cold arms. 

15. THE CULLENS 

The muted light of yet another cloudy day eventually woke me. I lay with my arm across my eyes, groggy 
and dazed. Something, a dream trying to be remembered, struggled to break into my consciousness. I 
moaned and rolled on my side, hoping more sleep would come. And then the previous day flooded back 
into my awareness. 

"Oh!" I sat up so fast it made my head spin. 



"Your hair looks like a haystack. . . but I like it." His unruffled voice came from the rocking chair in the 
corner. 

"Edward! You stayed!" I rejoiced, and thoughtlessly threw myself across the room and into his lap. In the 
instant that my thoughts caught up with my actions, I froze, shocked by my own uncontrolled enthusiasm. 
I stared up at him, afraid that I had crossed the wrong line. 

But he laughed. 

"Of course," he answered, startled, but seeming pleased by my reaction. His hands rubbed my back. 
I laid my head cautiously against his shoulder, breathing in the smell of his skin. 
"I was sure it was a dream." 
"You're not that creative," he scoffed. 

"Charlie!" I remembered, thoughtlessly jumping up again and heading to the door. 

"He left an hour ago — after reattaching your battery cables, I might add. I have to admit I was 
disappointed. Is that really all it would take to stop you, if you were determined to go?" 

I deliberated where I stood, wanting to return to him badly, but afraid I might have morning breath. 

"You're not usually this confused in the morning," he noted. He held his arms open for me to return. A 
nearly irresistible invitation. 

"I need another human minute," I admitted. 

"IH wait." 

I skipped to the bathroom, my emotions unrecognizable. I didn't know myself, inside or out. The face in 
the mirror was practically a stranger — eyes too bright, hectic spots of red across my cheekbones. After 
I brushed my teeth, I worked to straighten out the tangled chaos that was my hair. I splashed my face 
with cold water, and tried to breathe normally, with no noticeable success. I half-ran back to my room. 

It seemed like a miracle that he was there, his arms still waiting for me. He reached out to me, and my 
heart thumped unsteadily. 

"Welcome back," he murmured, taking me into his arms. 

He rocked me for a while in silence, until I noticed that his clothes were changed, his hair smooth. 

"You left?" I accused, touching the collar of his fresh shirt. 

"I could hardly leave in the clothes I came in — what would the neighbors think?" 

I pouted. 

"You were very deeply asleep; I didn't miss anything." His eyes gleamed. "The talking came earlier." 

I groaned. "What did you hear?" 

His gold eyes grew very soft. "You said you loved me." 

"You knew that already," I reminded him, ducking my head. 



"It was nice to hear, just the same." 

I hid my face against his shoulder. 

"I love you," I whispered. 

"You are my life now," he answered simply. 

There was nothing more to say for the moment. He rocked us back and forth as the room grew lighter. 

"Breakfast time," he said eventually, casually — to prove, I'm sure, that he remembered all my human 
frailties. 

So I clutched my throat with both hands and stared at him with wide eyes. Shock crossed his face. 
"Kidding!" I snickered. "And you said I couldn't act!" 
He frowned in disgust. "That wasn't funny." 

"It was very funny, and you know it." But I examined his gold eyes carefully, to make sure that I was 
forgiven. Apparentiy, I was. 

"Shall I rephrase?" he asked. "Breakfast time for the human." 
"Oh, okay." 

He threw me over his stone shoulder, gently, but with a swiftness that left me breathless. I protested as he 
carried me easily down the stairs, but he ignored me. He sat me right side up on a chair. 

The kitchen was bright, happy, seeming to absorb my mood. 

"What's for breakfast?" I asked pleasantly. 

That threw him for a minute. 

"Er, I'm not sure. What would you like?" His marble brow puckered. 
I grinned, hopping up. 

"That's all right, I fend for myself pretty well. Watch me hunt." 

I found a bowl and a box of cereal. I could feel his eyes on me as I poured the milk and grabbed a 
spoon. I sat my food on the table, and then paused. 

"Can I get you anything?" I asked, not wanting to be rude. 

He rolled his eyes. "Just eat, Bella." 

I sat at the table, watching him as I took a bite. He was gazing at me, studying my every movement. It 
made me self-conscious. I cleared my mouth to speak, to distract him. 

"What's on the agenda for today?" I asked. 

"Hmmm. . . " I watched him frame his answer carefully. "What would you say to meeting my family?" 
I gulped. 



"Are you afraid now?" He sounded hopeful. 

"Yes," I admitted; how could I deny it — he could see my eyes. 

"Don't worry." He smirked. "I'll protect you." 

"I'm not afraid of them" I explained. "I'm afraid they won't. . . like me. Won't they be, well, surprised that 
you would bring someone. . . like me. . . home to meet them? Do they know that I know about them?" 

"Oh, they already know everything. They'd taken bets yesterday, you know" — he smiled, but his voice 
was harsh — "on whether I'd bring you back, though why anyone would bet against Alice, I can't 
imagine. At any rate, we don't have secrets in the family. It's not really feasible, what with my mind 
reading and Alice seeing the future and all that." 

"And Jasper making you feel all warm and fuzzy about spilling your guts, don't forget that." 
"You paid attention," he smiled approvingly. 

"I've been known to do that every now and then." I grimaced. "So did Alice see me coming?" 

His reaction was strange. "Something like that," he said uncomfortably, turning away so I couldn't see his 
eyes. I stared at him curiously. 

"Is that any good?" he asked, turning back to me abruptly and eyeing my breakfast with a teasing look on 
his face. "Honestly, it doesn't look very appetizing." 

"Well, it's no irritable grizzly. . . " I murmured, ignoring him when he glowered. I was still wondering why 
he responded that way when I mentioned Alice. I hurried through my cereal, speculating. 

He stood in the middle of the kitchen, the statue of Adonis again, staring abstractedly out the back 
windows. 

Then his eyes were back on me, and he smiled his heartbreaking smile. 

"And you should introduce me to your father, too, I think." 

"He already knows you," I reminded him. 

"As your boyfriend, I mean." 

I stared at him with suspicion. "Why?" 

"Isn't that customary?" he asked innocentiy. 

"I don't know," I admitted. My dating history gave me few reference points to work with. Not that any 
normal rules of dating applied here. "That's not necessary, you know. I don't expect you to. . . I mean, 
you don't have to pretend for me." 

His smile was patient. "I'm not pretending." 

I pushed the remains of my cereal around the edges of the bowl, biting my lip. 
"Are you going to tell Charlie I'm your boyfriend or not?" he demanded. 

"Is that what you are?" I suppressed my internal cringing at the thought of Edward and Charlie and the 
word boyfriend all in the same room at the same time. 



"It's a loose interpretation of the word "boy,' I'll admit." 

"I was under the impression that you were something more, actually," I confessed, looking at the table. 

"Well, I don't know if we need to give him all the gory details." He reached across the table to lift my chin 
with a cold, gentie finger. "But he will need some explanation for why I'm around here so much. I don't 
want Chief Swan getting a restraining order put on me." 

"Will you be?" I asked, suddenly anxious. "Will you really be here?" 

"As long as you want me," he assured me. 

"I'll always want you," I warned him. "Forever." 

He walked slowly around the table, and, pausing a few feet away, he reached out to touch his fingertips 
to my cheek. His expression was unfathomable. 

"Does that make you sad?" I asked. 

He didn't answer. He stared into my eyes for an immeasurable period of time. 

"Are you finished?" he finally asked. 

I jumped up. "Yes." 

"Get dressed — I'll wait here." 

It was hard to decide what to wear. I doubted there were any etiquette books detailing how to dress 
when your vampire sweetheart takes you home to meet his vampire family. It was a relief to think the 
word to myself. I knew I shied away from it intentionally. 

I ended up in my only skirt — long, khaki-colored, still casual. I put on the dark blue blouse he'd once 
complimented. A quick glance in the mirror told me my hair was entirely impossible, so I pulled it back 
into a pony tail. 

"Okay." I bounced down the stairs. "I'm decent." 

He was waiting at the foot of the stairs, closer than I'd thought, and I bounded right into him. He steadied 
me, holding me a careful distance away for a few seconds before suddenly pulling me closer. 

"Wrong again," he murmured in my ear. "You are utterly indecent — no one should look so tempting, it's 
not fair." 

"Tempting how?" I asked. "I can change. 

He sighed, shaking his head. "You are so absurd." He pressed his cool lips delicately to my forehead, 
and the room spun. The smell of his breath made it impossible to think. 

"Shall I explain how you are tempting me?" he said. It was clearly a rhetorical question. His fingers traced 
slowly down my spine, his breath corning more quickly against my skin. My hands were limp on his 
chest, and I felt lightheaded again. He tilted his head slowly and touched his cool lips to mine for the 
second time, very carefully, parting them slightiy. 

And then I collapsed. 



"Bella?" His voice was alarmed as he caught me and held me up. 
"You. . . made. . . me. . . faint," I accused him dizzily. 

"What am I going to do with youT he groaned in exasperation. "Yesterday I kiss you, and you attack 
me! Today you pass out on me!" 

I laughed weakly, letting his arms support me while my head spun. 
"So much for being good at everything," he sighed. 

"That's the problem." I was still dizzy. "You're too good. Far, far too good." 
"Do you feel sick?" he asked; he'd seen me like this before. 

"No — that wasn't the same kind of fainting at all. I don't know what happened." I shook my head 
apologetically, "I think I forgot to breathe." 

"I can't take you anywhere like this." 

"I'm fine," I insisted. "Your family is going to think I'm insane anyway, what's the difference?" 

He measured my expression for a moment. "I'm very partial to that color with your skin," he offered 
unexpectedly. I flushed with pleasure, and looked away. 

"Look, I'm trying really hard not to think about what I'm about to do, so can we go already?" I asked. 

"And you're worried, not because you're headed to meet a houseful of vampires, but because you think 
those vampires won't approve of you, correct?" 

"That's right," I answered immediately, hiding my surprise at his casual use of the word. 
He shook his head. "You're incredible." 

I realized, as he drove my truck out of the main part of town, that I had no idea where he lived. We 
passed over the bridge at the Calawah River, the road winding northward, the houses flashing past us 
growing farther apart, getting bigger. And then we were past the other houses altogether, driving through 
misty forest. I was trying to decide whether to ask or be patient, when he turned abruptly onto an 
unpaved road. It was unmarked, barely visible among the ferns. The forest encroached on both sides, 
leaving the road ahead only discernible for a few meters as it twisted, serpentiike, around the ancient 
trees. 

And then, after a few miles, there was some thinning of the woods, and we were suddenly in a small 
meadow, or was it actually a lawn? The gloom of the forest didn't relent, though, for there were six 
primordial cedars that shaded an entire acre with their vast sweep of branches. The trees held their 
protecting shadow right up to the walls of the house that rose among them, making obsolete the deep 
porch that wrapped around the first story. 

I don't know what I had expected, but it definitely wasn't this. The house was timeless, graceful, and 
probably a hundred years old. It was painted a soft, faded white, three stories tall, rectangular and well 
proportioned. The windows and doors were either part of the original structure or a perfect restoration. 
My truck was the only car in sight. I could hear the river close by, hidden in the obscurity of the forest. 


2:11 The name of the first is Pison: that is it which compasseth the
whole land of Havilah, where there is gold; 2:12 And the gold of that
land is good: there is bdellium and the onyx stone.

2:13 And the name of the second river is Gihon: the same is it that
compasseth the whole land of Ethiopia.

2:14 And the name of the third river is Hiddekel: that is it which
goeth toward the east of Assyria. And the fourth river is Euphrates.

2:15 And the LORD God took the man, and put him into the garden of
Eden to dress it and to keep it.

2:16 And the LORD God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the
garden thou mayest freely eat: 2:17 But of the tree of the knowledge
of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou
eatest thereof thou shalt surely die.

"Wow." 



"You like it?" He smiled. 



"It. . . has a certain charm." 

He pulled the end of my ponytail and chuckled. 

"Ready?" he asked, opening my door. 

"Not even a little bit — let's go." I tried to laugh, but it seemed to get stuck in my throat. I smoothed my 
hair nervously. 

"You look lovely." He took my hand easily, without tliinking about it. 

We walked through the deep shade up to the porch. I knew he could feel my tension; his thumb rubbed 
soothing circles into the back of my hand. 

He opened the door for me. 

The inside was even more surprising, less predictable, than the exterior. It was very bright, very open, 
and very large. This must have originally been several rooms, but the walls had been removed from most 
of the first floor to create one wide space. The back, south-facing wall had been entirely replaced with 
glass, and, beyond the shade of the cedars, the lawn stretched bare to the wide river. A massive curving 
staircase dominated the west side of the room. The walls, the high-beamed ceiling, the wooden floors, 
and the thick carpets were all varying shades of white. 

Waiting to greet us, standing just to the left of the door, on a raised portion of the floor by a spectacular 
grand piano, were Edward's parents. 

I'd seen Dr. Cullen before, of course, yet I couldn't help but be struck again by his youth, his outrageous 
perfection. At his side was Esme, I assumed, the only one of the family I'd never seen before. She had 
the same pale, beautiful features as the rest of them. Something about her heart-shaped face, her billows 
of soft, caramel-colored hair, reminded me of the ingenues of the silent-movie era. She was small, 
slender, yet less angular, more rounded than the others. They were both dressed casually, in light colors 
that matched the inside of the house. They smiled in welcome, but made no move to approach us. Trying 
not to frighten me, I guessed. 

"Carlisle, Esme," Edward's voice broke the short silence, "this is Bella." 

"You're very welcome, Bella." Carlisle's step was measured, careful as he approached me. He raised his 
hand tentatively, and I stepped forward to shake hands with him. 

"It's nice to see you again, Dr. Cullen." 

"Please, call me Carlisle." 

"Carlisle." I grinned at him, my sudden confidence surprising me. I could feel Edward's relief at my side. 

Esme smiled and stepped forward as well, reaching for my hand. Her cold, stone grasp was just as I 
expected. 

"It's very nice to know you," she said sincerely. 

"Thank you. I'm glad to meet you, too." And I was. It was like meeting a fairy tale — Snow White, in the 
flesh. 



"Where are Alice and Jasper?" Edward asked, but no one answered, as they had just appeared at the 
top of the wide staircase. 

"Hey, Edward!" Alice called enthusiastically. She ran down the stairs, a streak of black hair and white 
skin, corning to a sudden and graceful stop in front of me. Carlisle and Esme shot warning glances at her, 
but I liked it. It was natural — for her, anyway. 

"Hi, Bella!" Alice said, and she bounced forward to kiss my cheek. If Carlisle and Esme had looked 
cautious before, they now looked staggered. There was shock in my eyes, too, but I was also very 
pleased that she seemed to approve of me so entirely. I was startled to feel Edward stiffen at my side. I 
glanced at his face, but his expression was unreadable. 

"You do smell nice, I never noticed before," she commented, to my extreme embarrassment. 

No one else seemed to know quite what to say, and then Jasper was there — tall and leonine. A feeling 
of ease spread through me, and I was suddenly comfortable despite where I was. Edward stared at 
Jasper, raising one eyebrow, and I remembered what Jasper could do. 

"Hello, Bella," Jasper said. He kept his distance, not offering to shake my hand. But it was impossible to 
feel awkward near him. 

"Hello, Jasper." I smiled at him shyly, and then at the others. "It's nice to meet you all — you have a very 
beautiful home," I added conventionally. 

"Thank you," Esme said. "We're so glad that you came." She spoke with feeling, and I realized that she 
thought I was brave. 

I also realized that Rosalie and Emmett were nowhere to be seen, and I remembered Edward's 
too-innocent denial when I'd asked him if the others didn't like me. 

Carlisle's expression distracted me from this train of thought; he was gazing meaningfully at Edward with 
an intense expression. Out of the corner of my eye, I saw Edward nod once. 

I looked away, trying to be polite. My eyes wandered again to the beautiful instrument on the platform by 
the door. I suddenly remembered my childhood fantasy that, should I ever win a lottery, I would buy a 
grand piano for my mother. She wasn't really good — she only played for herself on our secondhand 
upright — but I loved to watch her play. She was happy, absorbed — she seemed like a new, 
mysterious being to me then, someone outside the "mom" persona I took for granted. She'd put me 
through lessons, of course, but like most kids, I whined until she let me quit. 

Esme noticed my preoccupation. 

"Do you play?" she asked, inchning her head toward the piano. 
I shook my head. "Not at all. But it's so beautiful. Is it yours?" 
"No," she laughed. "Edward didn't tell you he was musical?" 

"No." I glared at his suddenly innocent expression with narrowed eyes. "I should have known, I guess." 

Esme raised her delicate eyebrows in confusion. 

"Edward can do everything, right?" I explained. 

Jasper snickered and Esme gave Edward a reproving look. 



"I hope you haven't been showing off — it's rude," she scolded. 

"Just a bit," he laughed freely. Her face softened at the sound, and they shared a brief look that I didn't 
understand, though Esme's face seemed almost smug. 

"He's been too modest, actually," I corrected. 

"Well, play for her," Esme encouraged. 

"You just said showing off was rude," he objected. 

"There are exceptions to every rule," she replied. 

"I'd like to hear you play," I volunteered. 

"It's settled then." Esme pushed him toward the piano. He pulled me along, sitting me on the bench beside 
him 

He gave me a long, exasperated look before he turned to the keys. 

And then his fingers flowed swiftly across the ivory, and the room was filled with a composition so 
complex, so luxuriant, it was impossible to believe only one set of hands played. I felt my chin drop, my 
mouth open in astonishment, and heard low chuckles behind me at my reaction. 

Edward looked at me casually, the music still surging around us without a break, and winked. "Do you 
like it?" 

"You wrote this?" I gasped, understanding. 
He nodded. "It's Esme's favorite." 
I closed my eyes, shaking my head. 
"What's wrong?" 

'Tm feeling extremely insignificant." 

The music slowed, transforming into something softer, and to my surprise I detected the melody of his 
lullaby weaving through the profusion of notes. 

"You inspired this one," he said softly. The music grew unbearably sweet. 
I couldn't speak. 

"They like you, you know," he said conversationally. "Esme especially." 
I glanced behind me, but the huge room was empty now. 
"Where did they go?" 

"Very subtiy giving us some privacy, I suppose." 

I sighed. " They like me. But Rosalie and Emmett. . . " I trailed off, not sure how to express my doubts. 
He frowned. "Don't worry about Rosalie," he said, his eyes wide and persuasive. "She'll come around." 



I pursed my lips skeptically. "Emmett?" 

"Well, he thinks I'm a lunatic, it's true, but he doesn't have a problem with you. He's trying to reason with 
Rosalie." 

"What is it that upsets her?" I wasn't sure if I wanted to know the answer. 

He sighed deeply. "Rosalie struggles the most with. . . with what we are. It's hard for her to have someone 
on the outside know the truth. And she's a little jealous." 

"Rosalie is jealous of me?" I asked incredulously. I tried to imagine a universe in which someone as 
breathtaking as Rosalie would have any possible reason to feel jealous of someone like me. 

"You're human." He shrugged. "She wishes that she were, too." 

"Oh," I muttered, still stunned. "Even Jasper, though. . ." 

"That's really my fault," he said. "I told you he was the most recent to try our way of life. I warned him to 
keep his distance." 

I thought about the reason for that, and shuddered. 

"Esme and Carlisle. . . ?" I continued quickly, to keep him from noticing. 

"Are happy to see me happy. Actually, Esme wouldn't care if you had a third eye and webbed feet. All 
this time she's been worried about me, afraid that there was something missing from my essential makeup, 
that I was too young when Carlisle changed me. . . She's ecstatic. Every time I touch you, she just about 
chokes with satisfaction." 

"Alice seems very. . . enthusiastic." 

"Alice has her own way of looking at things," he said through tight hps. 
"And you're not going to explain that, are you?" 

A moment of wordless communication passed between us. He realized that I knew he was keeping 
something from me. I realized that he wasn't going to give anything away. Not now. 

"So what was Carlisle telling you before?" 

His eyebrows pulled together. "You noticed that, did you?" 

I shrugged. "Of course." 

He looked at me thoughtfully for a few seconds before answering. "He wanted to tell me some news — 
he didn't know if it was something I would share with you." 

"Will you?" 

"I have to, because I'm going to be a little. . . overbearingly protective over the next few days — or 
weeks — and I wouldn't want you to think I'm naturally a tyrant." 

"What's wrong?" 

"Nothing's wrong, exactly. Alice just sees some visitors coming soon. They know we're here, and they're 
curious." 



"Visitors?" 

"Yes. . . well, they aren't like us, of course — in their hunting habits, I mean. They probably won't come 
into town at all, but I'm certainly not going to let you out of my sight till they're gone." 

I shivered. 

"Finally, a rational response!" he murmured. "I was beginning to think you had no sense of 
self-preservation at all." 

I let that one pass, looking away, my eyes wandering again around the spacious room. 
He followed my gaze. "Not what you expected, is it?" he asked, his voice smug. 
"No," I admitted. 

"No coffins, no piled skulls in the comers; I don't even think we have cobwebs. . . what a disappointment 
this must be for you," he continued slyly. 

I ignored his teasing. "It's so light. . . so open." 

He was more serious when he answered. "It's the one place we never have to hide." 

The song he was still playing, my song, drifted to an end, the final chords shifting to a more melancholy 
key. The last note hovered poignantly in the silence. 

"Thank you," I murmured. I realized there were tears in my eyes. I dabbed at them, embarrassed. 

He touched the comer of my eye, trapping one I missed. He lifted his finger, examining the drop of 
moisture broodingly. Then, so quickly I couldn't be positive that he really did, he put his finger to his 
mouth to taste it. 

I looked at him questioningly, and he gazed back for a long moment before he finally smiled. 
"Do you want to see the rest of the house?" 

"No coffins?" I verified, the sarcasm in my voice not entirely masking the slight but genuine anxiety I felt. 
He laughed, taking my hand, leading me away from the piano. 
"No coffins," he promised. 

We walked up the massive staircase, my hand trailing along the satin-smooth rail. The long hall at the top 
of the stairs was paneled with a honey-colored wood, the same as the floorboards. 

"Rosalie and Emmett's room. . . Carlisle's office. . . Alice's room. . . " He gestured as he led me past the 
doors. 

He would have continued, but I stopped dead at the end of the hall, staring incredulously at the ornament 
hanging on the wall above my head. Edward chuckled at my bewildered expression. 

"You can laugh," he said. "It is sort of ironic." 

I didn't laugh. My hand raised automatically, one finger extended as if to touch the large wooden cross, 
its dark patina contrasting with the lighter tone of the wall. I didn't touch it, though I was curious if the 
aged wood would feel as silky as it looked. 



"It must be very old," I guessed. 



He shrugged. "Early sixteen-thirties, more or less." 
I looked away from the cross to stare at him. 
"Why do you keep this here?" I wondered. 
"Nostalgia. It belonged to Carlisle's father." 
"He collected antiques?" I suggested doubtfully. 

"No. He carved this himself. It hung on the wall above the pulpit in the vicarage where he preached." 

I wasn't sure if my face betrayed my shock, but I returned to gazing at the simple, ancient cross, just in 
case. I quickly did the mental math; the cross was over three hundred and seventy years old. The silence 
stretched on as I struggled to wrap my mind around the concept of so many years. 

"Are you all right?" He sounded worried. 

"How old is Carlisle?" I asked quietly, ignoring his question, still staring up. 

"He just celebrated his three hundred and sixty-second birthday," Edward said. I looked back at him, a 
million questions in my eyes. 

He watched me carefully as he spoke. 

"Carlisle was bom in London, in the sixteen-forties, he believes. Time wasn't marked as accurately then, 
for the common people anyway. It was just before Cromwell's rule, though." 

I kept my face composed, aware of his scrutiny as I listened. It was easier if I didn't try to believe. 

"He was the only son of an Anglican pastor. His mother died giving birth to him. His father was an 
intolerant man. As the Protestants came into power, he was enthusiastic in his persecution of Roman 
Catholics and other religions. He also believed very strongly in the reality of evil. He led hunts for 
witches, werewolves. . . and vampires." I grew very still at the word. I'm sure he noticed, but he went on 
without pausing. 

"They burned a lot of innocent people — of course the real creatures that he sought were not so easy to 
catch. 

"When the pastor grew old, he placed his obedient son in charge of the raids. At first Carlisle was a 
disappointment; he was not quick to accuse, to see demons where they did not exist. But he was 
persistent, and more clever than his father. He actually discovered a coven of true vampires that lived 
hidden in the sewers of the city, only corning out by night to hunt. In those days, when monsters were not 
just myths and legends, that was the way many lived. 

"The people gathered their pitchforks and torches, of course" — his brief laugh was darker now — "and 
waited where Carlisle had seen the monsters exit into the street. Eventually one emerged." 

His voice was very quiet; I strained to catch the words. 

"He must have been ancient, and weak with hunger. Carlisle heard him call out in Latin to the others 
when he caught the scent of the mob. He ran through the streets, and Carlisle — he was twenty-three 
and very fast — was in the lead of the pursuit. The creature could have easily outrun them, but Carlisle 



thinks he was too hungry, so he turned and attacked. He fell on Carlisle first, but the others were close 
behind, and he turned to defend himself. He killed two men, and made off with a third, leaving Carlisle 
bleeding in the street." 

He paused. I could sense he was editing something, keeping something from me. 

"Carlisle knew what his father would do. The bodies would be burned — anything infected by the 
monster must be destroyed. Carlisle acted instinctively to save his own life. He crawled away from the 
alley while the mob followed the fiend and his victim. He hid in a cellar, buried himself in rotting potatoes 
for three days. It's a miracle he was able to keep silent, to stay undiscovered. 

"It was over then, and he realized what he had become." 

I'm not sure what my face was revealing, but he suddenly broke off. 

"How are you feeling?" he asked. 

"I'm fine," I assured him. And, though I bit my hp in hesitation, he must have seen the curiosity burning in 
my eyes. 

He smiled. "I expect you have a few more questions for me." 
"A few." 

His smile widened over his brilliant teeth. He started back down the hall, pulling me along by the hand. 
"Come on, then," he encouraged. "I'll show you." 

16. CARLISLE 



He led me back to the room that he'd pointed out as Carlisle's office. He paused outside the door for an 
instant. 

"Come in," Carlisle's voice invited. 

Edward opened the door to a high-ceilinged room with tall, west-facing windows. The walls were 
paneled again, in a darker wood — where they were visible. Most of the wall space was taken up by 
towering bookshelves that reached high above my head and held more books than I'd ever seen outside 
a library. 

Carlisle sat behind a huge mahogany desk in a leather chair. He was just placing a bookmark in the pages 
of the thick volume he held. The room was how I'd always imagined a college dean's would look — only 
Carlisle looked too young to fit the part. 

"What can I do for you?" he asked us pleasantiy, rising from his seat. 

"I wanted to show Bella some of our history," Edward said. "Well, your history, actually." 

"We didn't mean to disturb you," I apologized. 

"Not at all. Where are you going to start?" 

"The Waggoner," Edward replied, placing one hand lightly on my shoulder and spinning me around to 



look back toward the door we'd just come through. Every time he touched me, in even the most casual 
way, my heart had an audible reaction. It was more embarrassing with Carlisle there. 

The wall we faced now was different from the others. Instead of bookshelves, this wall was crowded 
with framed pictures of all sizes, some in vibrant colors, others dull monochromes. I searched for some 
logic, some binding motif the collection had in common, but I found nothing in my hasty examination. 

Edward pulled me toward the far left side, standing me in front of a small square oil painting in a plain 
wooden frame. This one did not stand out among the bigger and brighter pieces; painted in varying tones 
of sepia, it depicted a miniature city full of steeply slanted roofs, with thin spires atop a few scattered 
towers. A wide river filled the foreground, crossed by a bridge covered with structures that looked like 
tiny cathedrals. 

"London in the sixteen-fifties," Edward said. 

"The London of my youth," Carlisle added, from a few feet behind us. I flinched; I hadn't heard him 
approach. Edward squeezed my hand. 

"Will you tell the story?" Edward asked. I twisted a little to see Carlisle's reaction. 

He met my glance and smiled. "I would," he replied. "But I'm actually running a bit late. The hospital 
called this morning — Dr. Snow is taking a sick day. Besides, you know the stories as well as I do," he 
added, grinning at Edward now. 

It was a strange combination to absorb — the everyday concerns of the town doctor stuck in the middle 
of a discussion of his early days in seventeenth-century London. 

It was also unsettling to know that he spoke aloud only for my benefit. 

After another warm smile for me, Carlisle left the room. 

I stared at the little picture of Carlisle's hometown for a long moment. 

"What happened then?" I finally asked, staring up at Edward, who was watching me. "When he realized 
what had happened to him?" 

He glanced back to the paintings, and I looked to see which image caught his interest now. It was a 
larger landscape in dull fall colors — an empty, shadowed meadow in a forest, with a craggy peak in the 
distance. 

"When he knew what he had become," Edward said quietiy, "he rebelled against it. He tried to destroy 
himself. But that's not easily done." 

"How?" I didn't mean to say it aloud, but the word broke through my shock. 

"He jumped from great heights," Edward told me, his voice impassive. "He tried to drown himself in the 
ocean. . . but he was young to the new life, and very strong. It is amazing that he was able to resist. . . 
feeding. . . while he was still so new. The instinct is more powerful then, it takes over everything. But he 
was so repelled by himself that he had the strength to try to kill himself with starvation." 

"Is that possible?" My voice was faint. 

"No, there are very few ways we can be killed." 

I opened my mouth to ask, but he spoke before I could. 



"So he grew very hungry, and eventually weak. He strayed as far as he could from the human populace, 
recognizing that his willpower was weakening, too. For months he wandered by night, seeking the 
loneliest places, loathing himself. 

"One night, a herd of deer passed his hiding place. He was so wild with thirst that he attacked without a 
thought. His strength returned and he realized there was an alternative to being the vile monster he feared. 
Had he not eaten venison in his former life? Over the next months his new philosophy was bom. He 
could exist without being a demon. He found himself again. 

"He began to make better use of his time. He'd always been intelligent, eager to learn. Now he had 
unlimited time before him. He studied by night, planned by day. He swam to France and — " 

"He swam to France?" 

"People swim the Channel all the time, Bella," he reminded me patiently. 
"That's true, I guess. It just sounded funny in that context. Go on." 
"Swirnming is easy for us — " 
"Everything is easy for you" I griped. 
He waited, his expression amused. 
"I won't interrupt again, I promise." 

He chuckled darkly, and finished his sentence. "Because, technically, we don't need to breathe." 
"You—" 

"No, no, you promised." He laughed, putting his cold finger lightiy to my hps. "Do you want to hear the 
story or not?" 

"You can't spring something like that on me, and then expect me not to say anything," I mumbled against 
his finger. 

He lifted his hand, moving it to rest against my neck. The speed of my heart reacted to that, but I 
persisted. 

"You don't have to breathe!" I demanded. 

"No, it's not necessary. Just a habit." He shrugged. 

"How long can you go. . . without breathing?' 

"Indefinitely, I suppose; I don't know. It gets a bit uncomfortable — being without a sense of smell." 
"A bit uncomfortable," I echoed. 

I wasn't paying attention to my own expression, but something in it made him grow somber. His hand 
dropped to his side and he stood very still, his eyes intent on my face. The silence lengthened. His 
features were immobile as stone. 

"What is it?" I whispered, touching his frozen face. 

His face softened under my hand, and he sighed. "I keep waiting for it to happen." 



"For what to happen?" 



"I know that at some point, something I tell you or something you see is going to be too much. And then 
you'll run away from me, screaming as you go." He smiled half a smile, but his eyes were serious. "I won't 
stop you. I want this to happen, because I want you to be safe. And yet, I want to be with you. The two 
desires are impossible to reconcile. . ." He trailed off, staring at my face. Waiting. 

"I'm not mnning anywhere," I promised. 

"We'll see," he said, smiling again. 

I frowned at him. "So, go on — Carlisle was swimming to France." 

He paused, getting back into his story. Reflexively, his eyes flickered to another picture — the most 
colorful of them all, the most ornately framed, and the largest; it was twice as wide as the door it hung 
next to. The canvas overflowed with bright figures in swirling robes, writhing around long pillars and off 
marbled balconies. I couldn't tell if it represented Greek mythology, or if the characters floating in the 
clouds above were meant to be biblical. 

"Carlisle swam to France, and continued on through Europe, to the universities there. By night he studied 
music, science, medicine — and found his calling, his penance, in that, in saving human lives." His 
expression became awed, almost reverent. "I can't adequately describe the struggle; it took Carlisle two 
centuries of torturous effort to perfect his self-control. Now he is all but immune to the scent of human 
blood, and he is able to do the work he loves without agony. He finds a great deal of peace there, at the 
hospital. . ." Edward stared off into space for a long moment. Suddenly he seemed to recall his purpose. 
He tapped his finger against the huge painting in front of us. 

"He was studying in Italy when he discovered the others there. They were much more civilized and 
educated than the wraiths of the London sewers." 

He touched a comparatively sedate quartet of figures painted on the highest balcony, looking down 
calmly on the mayhem below them. I examined the grouping carefully and realized, with a startled laugh, 
that I recognized the golden-haired man. 

"Solimena was greatly inspired by Carlisle's friends. He often painted them as gods," Edward chuckled. 
"Aro, Marcus, Caius," he said, indicating the other three, two black-haired, one snowy-white. "Nighttime 
patrons of the arts." 

"What happened to them?" I wondered aloud, my fingertip hovering a centimeter from the figures on the 
canvas. 

"They're still there." He shrugged. "As they have been for who knows how many millennia. Carlisle 
stayed with them only for a short time, just a few decades. He greatly admired their civility, their 
refinement, but they persisted in trying to cure his aversion to 'his natural food source,' as they called it. 
They tried to persuade him, and he tried to persuade them, to no avail. At that point, Carlisle decided to 
try the New World. He dreamed of finding others like himself. He was very lonely, you see. 

"He didn't find anyone for a long time. But, as monsters became the stuff of fairy tales, he found he could 
interact with unsuspecting humans as if he were one of them. He began practicing medicine. But the 
companionship he craved evaded him; he couldn't risk familiarity. 

"When the influenza epidemic hit, he was working nights in a hospital in Chicago. He'd been turning over 
an idea in his mind for several years, and he had almost decided to act — since he couldn't find a 



companion, he would create one. He wasn't absolutely sure how his own transformation had occurred, 
so he was hesitant. And he was loath to steal anyone's life the way his had been stolen. It was in that 
frame of mind that he found me. There was no hope for me; I was left in a ward with the dying. He had 
nursed my parents, and knew I was alone. He decided to try . . . " 

His voice, nearly a whisper now, trailed off. He stared unseeingly through the west windows. I wondered 
which images filled his mind now, Carlisle's memories or his own. I waited quietly. 

When he turned back to me, a gentle angel's smile lit his expression. 

"And so we've come full circle," he concluded. 

"Have you always stayed with Carlisle, then?" I wondered. 

"Almost always." He put his hand lightiy on my waist and pulled me with him as he walked through the 
door. I stared back at the wall of pictures, wondering if I would ever get to hear the other stories. 

Edward didn't say any more as we walked down the hall, so I asked, "Almost?" 

He sighed, seeming reluctant to answer. "Well, I had a typical bout of rebellious adolescence — about 
ten years after I was. . . bom. . . created, whatever you want to call it. I wasn't sold on his life of 
abstinence, and I resented him for curbing my appetite. So I went off on my own for a time." 

"Really?" I was intrigued, rather than frightened, as I perhaps should have been. 

He could tell. I vaguely realized that we were headed up the next flight of stairs, but I wasn't paying much 
attention to my surroundings. 

"That doesn't repulse you?" 

"No." 

"Why not?" 

"I guess. . . it sounds reasonable." 

He barked a laugh, more loudly than before. We were at the top of the stairs now, in another paneled 
hallway. 

"From the time of my new birth," he murmured, "I had the advantage of knowing what everyone around 
me was thinking, both human and non-human alike. That's why it took me ten years to defy Carlisle — I 
could read his perfect sincerity, understand exactly why he lived the way he did. 

"It took me only a few years to return to Carlisle and recommit to his vision. I thought I would be exempt 
from the. . . depression. . . that accompanies a conscience. Because I knew the thoughts of my prey, I 
could pass over the innocent and pursue only the evil. If I followed a murderer down a dark alley where 
he stalked a young girl — if I saved her, then surely I wasn't so terrible." 

I shivered, imagining only too clearly what he described — the alley at night, the frightened girl, the dark 
man behind her. And Edward, Edward as he hunted, terrible and glorious as a young god, unstoppable. 
Would she have been grateful, that girl, or more frightened than before? 

"But as time went on, I began to see the monster in my eyes. I couldn't escape the debt of so much 
human life taken, no matter how justified. And I went back to Carlisle and Esme. They welcomed me 
back like the prodigal. It was more than I deserved." 



We'd come to a stop in front of the last door in the hall. 

"My room," he informed me, opening it and pulling me through. 

His room faced south, with a wall-sized window like the great room below. The whole back side of the 
house must be glass. His view looked down on the winding Sol Due River, across the untouched forest 
to the Olympic Mountain range. The mountains were much closer than I would have believed. 

The western wall was completely covered with shelf after shelf of CDs. His room was better stocked 
than a music store. In the comer was a sophisticated-looking sound system, the kind I was afraid to 
touch because I'd be sure to break something. There was no bed, only a wide and inviting black leather 
sofa. The floor was covered with a thick golden carpet, and the walls were hung with heavy fabric in a 
slightly darker shade. 

"Good acoustics?" I guessed. 

He chuckled and nodded. 

He picked up a remote and turned the stereo on. It was quiet, but the soft jazz number sounded like the 
band was in the room with us. I went to look at his rnind-boggling music collection. 

"How do you have these organized?" I asked, unable to find any rhyme or reason to the titles. 

He wasn't paying attention. 

"Ummm, by year, and then by personal preference within that frame," he said absentiy. 

I turned, and he was looking at me with a peculiar expression in his eyes. 

"What?" 

"I was prepared to feel. . . relieved. Having you know about everything, not needing to keep secrets from 
you. But I didn't expect to feel more than that. I like it. It makes me. . . happy." He shrugged, smiling 
slightly. 

"I'm glad," I said, smiling back. I'd worried that he might regret telling me these things. It was good to 
know that wasn't the case. 

But then, as his eyes dissected my expression, his smile faded and his forehead creased. 
"You're still waiting for the running and the screaming, aren't you?" I guessed. 
A faint smile touched his lips, and he nodded. 

"I hate to burst your bubble, but you're really not as scary as you think you are. I don't find you scary at 
all, actually," I lied casually. 

He stopped, raising his eyebrows in blatant disbelief. Then he flashed a wide, wicked smile. 
"You really shouldn't have said that," he chuckled. 

He growled, a low sound in the back of his throat; his lips curled back over his perfect teeth. His body 
shifted suddenly, half-crouched, tensed like a lion about to pounce. 

I backed away from him, glaring. 



"You wouldn't." 



I didn't see him leap at me — it was much too fast. I only found myself suddenly airborne, and then we 
crashed onto the sofa, knocking it into the wall. All the while, his arms formed an iron cage of protection 
around me — I was barely jostied. But I still was gasping as I tried to right myself. 

He wasn't having that. He curled me into a ball against his chest, holding me more securely than iron 
chains. I glared at him in alarm, but he seemed well in control, his jaw relaxed as he grinned, his eyes 
bright only with humor. 

"You were saying?" he growled playfully. 

"That you are a very, very terrifying monster," I said, my sarcasm marred a bit by my breathless voice. 

"Much better," he approved. 

"Urn." I struggled. "Can I get up now?" 

He just laughed. 

"Can we come in?" a soft voice sounded from the hall. 

I struggled to free myself, but Edward merely readjusted me so that I was somewhat more conventionally 
seated on his lap. I could see it was Alice, then, and Jasper behind her in the doorway. My cheeks 
burned, but Edward seemed at ease. 

"Go ahead." Edward was still chuckling quietiy. 

Alice seemed to find nothing unusual in our embrace; she walked — almost danced, her movements 
were so graceful — to the center of the room, where she folded herself sinuously onto the floor. Jasper, 
however, paused at the door, his expression a trifle shocked. He stared at Edward's face, and I 
wondered if he was tasting the atmosphere with his unusual sensitivity. 

"It sounded like you were having Bella for lunch, and we came to see if you would share," Alice 
announced. 

I stiffened for an instant, until I realized Edward was grinning — whether at her comment or my response, 
I couldn't tell. 

"Sorry, I don't believe I have enough to spare," he replied, his arms holding me recklessly close. 

"Actually," Jasper said, smiling despite himself as he walked into the room, "Alice says there's going to be 
a real storm tonight, and Emmett wants to play ball. Are you game?" 

The words were all common enough, but the context confused me. I gathered that Alice was a bit more 
reliable than the weatherman, though. 

Edward's eyes lit up, but he hesitated. 

"Of course you should bring Bella," Alice chirped. I thought I saw Jasper throw a quick glance at her. 
"Do you want to go?" Edward asked me, excited, his expression vivid. 
"Sure." I couldn't disappoint such a face. "Urn, where are we going?" 



"We have to wait for thunder to play ball — you'll see why," he promised. 
"Will I need an umbrella?" 
They all three laughed aloud. 
"Will she?" Jasper asked Alice. 

"No." She was positive. "The storm will hit over town. It should be dry enough in the clearing." 

"Good, then." The enthusiasm in Jasper's voice was catching, naturally. I found myself eager, rather than 
scared stiff. 

"Let's go see if Carlisle will come." Alice bounded up and to the door in a fashion that would break any 
ballerina's heart. 

"Like you don't know," Jasper teased, and they were swiftiy on their way. Jasper managed to 
inconspicuously close the door behind them. 

"What will we be playing?" I demanded. 

He sent O'Hare a postcard at Christmastime, and here is what it said: 

'I wish you and your family also as to your friend Merry Christmas and a happy New 
Year and I hope that we’ll meet again in a world of peace and freedom in the taxi cab if 
the accident will.’ 

I like that very much: 'If the accident will.' 

I would hate to tell you what this lousy little book cost me in money and anxiety and 
time. When I got home from the Second World War twenty-three years ago, I thought it 
would be easy for me to write about the destruction of Dresden, since all I would have to 
do would be to report what I had seen. And I thought, too, that it would be a masterpiece 
or at least make me a lot of money, since the subject was so big. 

But not many words about Dresden came from my mind then-not enough of them to 
make a book, anyway. And not many words come now, either, when I have become an 


"You will be watching," Edward clarified. "We will be playing baseball." 

I rolled my eyes. "Vampires like baseball?" 

"It's the American pastime," he said with mock solemnity. 

17. THE GAME 

It was just beginning to drizzle when Edward turned onto my street. Up until that moment, I'd had no 
doubt that he'd be staying with me while I spent a few interim hours in the real world. 

And then I saw the black car, a weathered Ford, parked in Charlie's driveway — and heard Edward 
mutter something unintelligible in a low, harsh voice. 

Leaning away from the rain under the shallow front porch, Jacob Black stood behind his father's 
wheelchair. Billy's face was impassive as stone as Edward parked my truck against the curb. Jacob 
stared down, his expression mortified. 

Edward's low voice was furious. "This is crossing the line." 

"He came to warn Charlie?" I guessed, more horrified than angry. 

Edward just nodded, answering Billy's gaze through the rain with narrowed eyes. 

I felt weak with relief that Charlie wasn't home yet. 

"Let me deal with this," I suggested. Edward's black glare made me anxious. 

To my surprise, he agreed. "That's probably best. Be careful, though. The child has no idea." 

I bridled a little at the word child. "Jacob is not that much younger than I am," I reminded him. 



He looked at me then, his anger abruptly fading. "Oh, I know," he assured me with a grin. 
I sighed and put my hand on the door handle. 

"Get them inside," he instructed, "so I can leave. I'll be back around dusk." 

"Do you want my truck?" I offered, meanwhile wondering how I would explain its absence to Charlie. 
He rolled his eyes. "I could walk home faster than this truck moves." 
"You don't have to leave," I said wistfully. 

He smiled at my glum expression. "Actually, I do. After you get rid of them" — he threw a dark glance in 
the Blacks' direction — "you still have to prepare Charlie to meet your new boyfriend." He grinned 
widely, showing all of his teeth. 

I groaned. "Thanks a lot." 

He smiled the crooked smile that I loved. "I'll be back soon," he promised. His eyes flickered back to the 
porch, and then he leaned in to swiftly kiss me just under the edge of my jaw. My heart lurched 
frantically, and I, too, glanced toward the porch. Billy's face was no longer impassive, and his hands 
clutched at the armrests of his chair. 

"Soon" I stressed as I opened the door and stepped out into the rain. 

I could feel his eyes on my back as I half-ran through the light sprinkle toward the porch. 

"Hey, Billy. Hi, Jacob." I greeted them as cheerfully as I could manage. "Charlie's gone for the day — I 
hope you haven't been waiting long." 

"Not long," Billy said in a subdued tone. His black eyes were piercing. "I just wanted to bring this up." He 
indicated a brown paper sack resting in his lap. 

"Thanks," I said, though I had no idea what it could be. "Why don't you come in for a minute and dry 

off?" 

I pretended to be oblivious to his intense scrutiny as I unlocked the door, and waved them in ahead of 
me. 

"Here, let me take that," I offered, turning to shut the door. I allowed myself one last glance at Edward. 
He was waiting, perfectiy still, his eyes solemn. 

"You'll want to put it in the fridge," Billy noted as he handed me the package. "It's some of Harry 
Clearwater's homemade fish fry — Charlie's favorite. The fridge keeps it drier." He shrugged. 

"Thanks," I repeated, but with feeling this time. "I was running out of new ways to fix fish, and he's bound 
to bring home more tonight." 

"Fishing again?" Billy asked with a subtie gleam in his eye. "Down at the usual spot? Maybe I'll run by 
and see him." 

"No," I quickly lied, my face going hard. "He was headed someplace new. . . but I have no idea where." 
He took in my changed expression, and it made him thoughtful. 



"Jake," he said, still appraising me. "Why don't you go get that new picture of Rebecca out of the car? I'll 
leave that for Charlie, too." 

"Where is it?" Jacob asked, his voice morose. I glanced at him, but he was staring at the floor, his 
eyebrows pulling together. 

"I think I saw it in the trunk," Billy said. "You may have to dig for it." 
Jacob slouched back out into the rain. 

Billy and I faced each other in silence. After a few seconds, the quiet started to feel awkward, so I turned 
and headed to the kitchen. I could hear his wet wheels squeak against the linoleum as he followed. 

I shoved the bag onto the crowded top shelf of the fridge, and spun around to confront him. His deeply 
lined face was unreadable. 

"Charlie won't be back for a long time." My voice was almost rude. 
He nodded in agreement, but said nothing. 
"Thanks again for the fish fry," I hinted. 

He continued nodding. I sighed and folded my arms across my chest. 

He seemed to sense that I had given up on small talk. "Bella," he said, and then he hesitated. 

I waited. 

"Bella," he said again, "Charlie is one of my best friends." 
"Yes." 

He spoke each word carefully in his rumbling voice. "I noticed you've been spending time with one of the 
Cullens." 

"Yes," I repeated curtly. 

His eyes narrowed. "Maybe it's none of my business, but I don't think that is such a good idea." 
"You're right," I agreed. "It is none of your business." 

He raised his graying eyebrows at my tone. "You probably don't know this, but the Cullen family has an 
unpleasant reputation on the reservation." 

"Actually, I did know that," I informed him in a hard voice. This surprised him. "But that reputation 
couldn't be deserved, could it? Because the Cullens never set foot on the reservation, do they?" I could 
see that my less than subtie reminder of the agreement that both bound and protected his tribe pulled him 
up short. 

"That's true," he acceded, his eyes guarded. "You seem. . . well informed about the Cullens. More 
informed than I expected." 

I stared him down. "Maybe even better informed than you are." 

He pursed his thick hps as he considered that. "Maybe." he allowed, but his eyes were shrewd. "Is 
Charlie as well informed?" 



He had found the weak chink in my armor. 

"Charlie likes the Cullens a lot," I hedged. He clearly understood my evasion. His expression was 
unhappy, but unsurprised. 

"It's not my business," he said. "But it may be Charlie's." 

"Though it would be my business, again, whether or not I think that it's Charlie's business, right?" 

I wondered if he even understood my confused question as I struggled not to say anything compromising. 
But he seemed to. He thought about it while the rain picked up against the roof, the only sound breaking 
the silence. 

"Yes," he finally surrendered. "I guess that's your business, too." 
I sighed with relief. "Thanks, Billy." 
"Just think about what you're doing, Bella," he urged. 
"Okay," I agreed quickly. 

He frowned. "What I meant to say was, don't do what you're doing." 

I looked into his eyes, filled with nothing but concern for me, and there was nothing I could say. 
Just then the front door banged loudly, and I jumped at the sound. 

"There's no picture anywhere in that car." Jacob's complaining voice reached us before he did. The 
shoulders of his shirt were stained with the rain, his hair dripping, when he rounded the comer. 

27:5 And Rebekah heard when Isaac spake to Esau his son. And Esau went
to the field to hunt for venison, and to bring it.

27:6 And Rebekah spake unto Jacob her son, saying, Behold, I heard thy
father speak unto Esau thy brother, saying, 27:7 Bring me venison, and
make me savoury meat, that I may eat, and bless thee before the LORD
before my death.

27:8 Now therefore, my son, obey my voice according to that which I
command thee.

27:9 Go now to the flock, and fetch me from thence two good kids of
the goats; and I will make them savoury meat for thy father, such as
he loveth: 27:10 And thou shalt bring it to thy father, that he may
eat, and that he may bless thee before his death.





"All right," Esme called in a clear voice, which I knew even Edward would hear, as far out as he was. 
"Batter up." 

Alice stood straight, deceptively motionless. Her style seemed to be stealth rather than an intimidating 
windup. She held the ball in both hands at her waist, and then, like the strike of a cobra, her right hand 
flicked out and the ball smacked into Jasper's hand. 

"Was that a strike?" I whispered to Esme. 

"If they don't hit it, it's a strike," she told me. 

Jasper hurled the ball back to Alice's waiting hand. She permitted herself a brief grin. And then her hand 
spun out again. 

This time the bat somehow made it around in time to smash into the invisible ball. The crack of impact 
was shattering, thunderous; it echoed off the mountains — I immediately understood the necessity of the 
thunderstorm. 

The ball shot like a meteor above the field, flying deep into the surrounding forest. 
"Home run," I murmured. 

"Wait," Esme cautioned, Ustening intentiy, one hand raised. Emmett was a blur around the bases, Carlisle 
shadowing him. I realized Edward was missing. 

27:18 And he came unto his father, and said, My father: and he said,
Here am I; who art thou, my son? 27:19 And Jacob said unto his
father, I am Esau thy first born; I have done according as thou badest
me: arise, I pray thee, sit and eat of my venison, that thy soul may
bless me.


"Hmm," Billy grunted, suddenly detached, spinning his chair around to face his son. "I guess I left it at 
home." 

Jacob rolled his eyes dramatically. "Great." 

"Well, Bella, tell Charlie" — Billy paused before continuing — "that we stopped by, I mean." 
"I will," I muttered. 

Jacob was surprised. "Are we leaving already?" 

"Charlie's gonna be out late," Billy explained as he rolled himself past Jacob. 
"Oh." Jacob looked disappointed. "Well, I guess I'll see you later, then, Bella." 
"Sure," I agreed. 

"Take care," Billy warned me. I didn't answer. 

Jacob helped his father out the door. I waved briefly, glancing swiftly toward my now-empty truck, and 
then shut the door before they were gone. 

I stood in the hallway for a minute, listening to the sound of their car as it backed out and drove away. I 
stayed where I was, waiting for the irritation and anxiety to subside. When the tension eventually faded a 
bit, I headed upstairs to change out of my dressy clothes. 


27:11 And Jacob said to Rebekah his mother, Behold, Esau my brother is
a hairy man, and I am a smooth man: 27:12 My father peradventure will
feel me, and I shall seem to him as a deceiver; and I shall bring a
curse upon me, and not a blessing.


27:15 And Rebekah took goodly raiment of her eldest son Esau, which
were with her in the house, and put them upon Jacob her younger son:
27:16 And she put the skins of the kids of the goats upon his hands,
and upon the smooth of his neck: 27:17 And she gave the savoury meat
and the bread, which she had prepared, into the hand of her son Jacob.

I tried on a couple of different tops, not sure what to expect tonight. As I concentrated on what was 
coming, what had just passed became insignificant. Now that I was removed from Jasper's and Edward's 
influence, I began to make up for not being terrified before. I gave up quickly on choosing an outfit — 
throwing on an old flannel shirt and jeans — knowing I would be in my raincoat all night anyway. 

The phone rang and I sprinted downstairs to get it. There was only one voice I wanted to hear; anything 
else would be a disappointment. But I knew that if he wanted to talk to me, he'd probably just 
materialize in my room. 

"Hello?" I asked, breathless. 

"Bella? It's me," Jessica said. 

"Oh, hey, Jess." I scrambled for a moment to come back down to reality. It felt like months rather than 
days since I'd spoken to Jess. "How was the dance?" 

"It was so much fun!" Jessica gushed. Needing no more invitation than that, she launched into a 
minute-by-minute account of the previous night. I mmm'd and ahh'd at the right places, but it wasn't easy 
to concentrate. Jessica, Mike, the dance, the school — they all seemed strangely irrelevant at the 
moment. My eyes kept flashing to the window, trying to judge the degree of light behind the heavy 
clouds. 

"Did you hear what I said, Bella?" Jess asked, irritated. 
"I'm sorry, what?" 

"I said, Mike kissed me! Can you believe it?" 
"That's wonderful, Jess," I said. 

"So what did you do yesterday?" Jessica challenged, still sounding bothered by my lack of attention. Or 
maybe she was upset because I hadn't asked for details. 

"Nothing, really. I just hung around outside to enjoy the sun." 

I heard Charlie's car in the garage. 

"Did you ever hear anything more from Edward Cullen?" 

The front door slammed and I could hear Charlie banging around under the stairs, putting his tackle 
away. 

"Urn." I hesitated, not sure what my story was anymore. 

"Hi there, kiddo!" Charlie called as he walked into the kitchen. I waved at him. 

Jess heard his voice. "Oh, your dad's there. Never mind — we'll talk tomorrow. See you in Trig." 

"See ya, Jess." I hung up the phone. 

"Hey, Dad," I said. He was scrubbing his hands in the sink. "Where's the fish?" 
"I put it out in the freezer." 



"I'll go grab a few pieces before they freeze — Billy dropped off some of Harry Clearwater's fish fry this 



afternoon." I worked to sound enthusiastic. 

"He did?" Charlie's eyes lit up. "That's my favorite." 

Charlie cleaned up while I got dinner ready. It didn't take long till we were sitting at the table, eating in 
silence. Charlie was enjoying his food. I was wondering desperately how to fulfill my assignment, 
struggling to think of a way to broach the subject. 

"What did you do with yourself today?" he asked, snapping me out of my reverie. 

"Well, this afternoon I just hung out around the house. . . " Only the very recent part of this afternoon, 
actually. I tried to keep my voice upbeat, but my stomach was hollow. "And this morning I was over at 
theCullens'." 

Charlie dropped his fork. 


"You said last night that you weren't interested in any of the boys in town." But he picked up his fork 
again, so I could see the worst was over. 

"Well, Edward doesn't live in town, Dad." 

He gave me a disparaging look as he chewed. 



"And, anyways," I continued, "it's kind of at an early stage, you know. Don't embarrass me with all the 
boyfriend talk, okay?" 

"When is he coming over?" 

"He'll be here in a few minutes." 

"Where is he taking you?" 

I groaned loudly. "I hope you're getting the Spanish Inquisition out of your system now. We're going to 
play baseball with his family." 

His face puckered, and then he finally chuckled. " You're playing baseball?" 

"Well, I'll probably watch most of the time." 

"You must really like this guy," he observed suspiciously. 

I sighed and rolled my eyes for his benefit. 

I heard the roar of an engine pull up in front of the house. I jumped up and started cleaning my dishes. 

"Leave the dishes, I can do them tonight. You baby me too much." 

The doorbell rang, and Charlie stalked off to answer it. I was half a step behind him. 

I hadn't realized how hard it was pouring outside. Edward stood in the halo of the porch light, looking 
like a male model in an advertisement for raincoats. 

"Come on in, Edward." 

I breathed a sigh of relief when Charlie got his name right. 
"Thanks, Chief Swan," Edward said in a respectful voice. 
"Go ahead and call me Charlie. Here, I'll take your jacket." 
"Thanks, sir." 

"Have a seat there, Edward." 
I grimaced. 

Edward sat down fluidly in the only chair, forcing me to sit next to Chief Swan on the sofa. I quickly shot 
him a dirty look. He winked behind Charlie's back. 

"So I hear you're getting my girl to watch baseball." Only in Washington would the fact that it was raining 
buckets have no bearing at all on the playing of outdoor sports. 

"Yes, sir, that's the plan." He didn't look surprised that I'd told my father the truth. He might have been 
listening, though. 

"Well, more power to you, I guess." 
Charlie laughed, and Edward joined in. 



"Okay." I stood up. "Enough humor at my expense. Let's go." I walked back to the hall and pulled on my 
jacket. They followed. 

"Not too late, Bell." 

"Don't worry, Charlie, I'll have her home early," Edward promised. 
"You take care of my girl, all right?" 
I groaned, but they ignored me. 
"She'll be safe with me, I promise, sir." 

Charlie couldn't doubt Edward's sincerity, it rang in every word. 
I stalked out. They both laughed, and Edward followed me. 

I stopped dead on the porch. There, behind my truck, was a monster Jeep. Its tires were higher than my 
waist. There were metal guards over the headlights and tail-lights, and four large spotlights attached to the 
crash bar. The hardtop was shiny red. 

Charlie let out a low whistle. 

"Wear your seat belts," he choked out. 

Edward followed me around to my side and opened the door. I gauged the distance to the seat and 
prepared to jump for it. He sighed, and then lifted me in with one hand. I hoped Charlie didn't notice. 

As he went around to the driver's side, at a normal, human pace, I tried to put on my seat belt. But there 
were too many buckles. 

"What's all this?" I asked when he opened the door. 

"It's an off-roading harness." 

"Uh-oh." 

I tried to find the right places for all the buckles to fit, but it wasn't going too quickly. He sighed again and 
reached over to help me. I was glad that the rain was too heavy to see Charlie clearly on the porch. That 
meant he couldn't see how Edward's hands lingered at my neck, brushed along my collarbones. I gave up 
trying to help him and focused on not hyperventilating. 

Edward turned the key and the engine roared to life. We pulled away from the house. 

"This is a. . . um. . . big Jeep you have." 

"It's Emmett's. I didn't think you'd want to run the whole way." 

"Where do you keep this thing?" 

"We remodeled one of the outbuildings into a garage." 

"Aren't you going to put on your seat belt?" 

He threw me a disbelieving look. 


27:13 And his mother said unto him, Upon me be thy curse, my son: only
obey my voice, and go fetch me them.

27:14 And he went, and fetched, and brought them to his mother: and
his mother made savoury meat, such as his father loved.

Then something sunk in. 

"Run the whole way? As in, we're still going to run part of the way?" My voice edged up a few octaves. 

He grinned tightly. "You're not going to run." 

"I'm going to be sick." 

"Keep your eyes closed, you'll be fine." 

I bit my hp, fighting the panic. 

He leaned over to kiss the top of my head, and then groaned. I looked at him, puzzled. 

"You smell so good in the rain," he explained. 

"In a good way, or in a bad way?" I asked cautiously. 

He sighed. "Both, always both." 

I don't know how he found his way in the gloom and downpour, but he somehow found a side road that 
was less of a road and more of a mountain path. For a long while conversation was impossible, because I 
was bouncing up and down on the seat like a jackhammer. He seemed to enjoy the ride, though, smiling 
hugely the whole way. 

And then we came to the end of the road; the trees formed green walls on three sides of the Jeep. The 
rain was a mere drizzle, slowing every second, the sky brighter through the clouds. 

"Sorry, Bella, we have to go on foot from here." 

"You know what? I'll just wait here." 

"What happened to all your courage? You were extraordinary this morning." 
"I haven't forgotten the last time yet." Could it have been only yesterday? 
He was around to my side of the car in a blur. He started unbuckling me. 
"I'll get those, you go on ahead," I protested. 

"Hmmm. . . " he mused as he quickly finished. "It seems I'm going to have to tamper with your memory." 

Before I could react, he pulled me from the Jeep and set my feet on the ground. It was barely misting 
now; Alice was going to be right. 

"Tamper with my memory?" I asked nervously. 

"Something like that." He was watching me intently, carefully, but there was humor deep in his eyes. He 
placed his hands against the Jeep on either side of my head and leaned forward, forcing me to press back 
against the door. He leaned in even closer, his face inches from mine. I had no room to escape. 

"Now," he breathed, and just his smell disturbed my thought processes, "what exactly are you worrying 
about?" 

"Well, um, hitting a tree — " I gulped " — and dying. And then getting sick." 



He fought back a smile. Then he bent his head down and touched his cold hps softly to the hollow at the 
base of my throat. 

"Are you still worried now?" he murmured against my skin. 

"Yes." I struggled to concentrate. "About hitting trees and getting sick." 

His nose drew a line up the skin of my throat to the point of my chin. His cold breath tickled my skin. 
"And now?" His hps whispered against my jaw. 
"Trees," I gasped. "Motion sickness." 

He lifted his face to kiss my eyelids. "Bella, you don't really think I would hit a tree, do you?" 

"No, but / might." There was no confidence in my voice. He smelled an easy victory. 

He kissed slowly down my cheek, stopping just at the comer of my mouth. 

"Would I let a tree hurt you?" His hps barely brushed against my trembhng lower hp. 

"No," I breathed. I knew there was a second part to my brilliant defense, but I couldn't quite call it back. 

"You see," he said, his hps moving against mine. "There's nothing to be afraid of, is there?" 

"No," I sighed, giving up. 

Then he took my face in his hands almost roughly, and kissed me in earnest, his unyielding hps moving 
against mine. 

There really was no excuse for my behavior. Obviously I knew better by now. And yet I couldn't seem 
to stop from reacting exactly as I had the first time. Instead of keeping safely motionless, my arms 
reached up to twine tightly around his neck, and I was suddenly welded to his stone figure. I sighed, and 
my lips parted. 

He staggered back, breaking my grip effortlessly. 

"Damn it, Bella!" he broke off, gasping. "You'll be the death of me, I swear you will." 
I leaned over, bracing my hands against my knees for support. 
"You're indestructible," I mumbled, trying to catch my breath. 

"I might have believed that before I met you . Now let's get out of here before I do something really 
stupid," he growled. 

He threw me across his back as he had before, and I could see the extra effort it took for him to be as 
gentle as he was. I locked my legs around his waist and secured my arms in a choke hold around his 
neck. 

"Don't forget to close your eyes," he warned severely. 

I quickly tucked my face into his shoulder blade, under my own arm, and squeezed my eyes shut. 

And I could hardly tell we were moving. I could feel him gliding along beneath me, but he could have 
been strolling down the sidewalk, the movement was so smooth. I was tempted to peek, just to see if he 



was really flying through the forest like before, but I resisted. It wasn't worth that awful dizziness. I 
contented myself with hstening to his breath come and go evenly. 

I wasn't quite sure we had stopped until he reached back and touched my hair. 

"It's over, Bella." 

I dared to open my eyes, and, sure enough, we were at a standstill. I stiffly unlocked my stranglehold on 
his body and slipped to the ground, landing on my backside. 

"Oh! " I huffed as I hit the wet ground. 

He stared at me incredulously, evidentiy not sure whether he was still too mad to find me funny. But my 
bewildered expression pushed him over the edge, and he broke into a roar of laughter. 

I picked myself up, ignoring him as I brushed the mud and bracken off the back of my jacket. That only 
made him laugh harder. Annoyed, I began to stride off into the forest. 

I felt his arm around my waist. 

"Where are you going, Bella?" 

"To watch a baseball game. You don't seem to be interested in playing anymore, but I'm sure the others 
will have fun without you." 

"You're going the wrong way." 

I turned around without looking at him, and stalked off in the opposite direction. He caught me again. 

"Don't be mad, I couldn't help myself. You should have seen your face." He chuckled before he could 
stop himself. 

"Oh, you're the only one who's allowed to get mad?" I asked, raising my eyebrows. 
"I wasn't mad at you." 

'"Bella, you'll be the death of me'?" I quoted sourly. 

"That was simply a statement of fact." 





"Out!" Esme cried in a clear voice. I stared in disbelief as Edward sprang from the fringe of the trees, ball 
in his upraised hand, his wide grin visible even to me. 

"Emmett hits the hardest," Esme explained, "but Edward runs the fastest." 

The inning continued before my incredulous eyes. It was impossible to keep up with the speed at which 
the ball flew, the rate at which their bodies raced around the field. 

I learned the other reason they waited for a thunderstorm to play when Jasper, trying to avoid Edward's 
infallible fielding, hit a ground ball toward Carlisle. Carlisle ran into the ball, and then raced Jasper to first 
base. When they collided, the sound was like the crash of two massive falling boulders. I jumped up in 
concern, but they were somehow unscathed. 




"What happened?" he yelled. He was right behind me. "I thought you liked him." 

He caught my elbow in the kitchen. Though he was still bewildered, his grip was firm. 

He spun me around to look at him, and I could see in his face that he had no intention of letting me leave. 
I could think of only one way to escape, and it involved hurting him so much that I hated myself for even 
considering it. But I had no time, and I had to keep him safe. 

I glared up at my father, fresh tears in my eyes for what I was about to do. 

"I do like him — that's the problem. I can't do this anymore! I can't put down any more roots here! I 
don't want to end up trapped in this stupid, boring town like Mom! I'm not going to make the same dumb 
mistake she did. I hate it — I can't stay here another minute!" 

His hand dropped from my arm like I'd electrocuted him. I turned away from his shocked, wounded face 
and headed for the door. 

"Bells, you can't leave now. It's nighttime," he whispered behind me. 
I didn't turn around. "I'll sleep in the truck if I get tired." 

"Just wait another week," he pled, still shell-shocked. "Renee will be back by then." 
This completely derailed me. "What?" 

Charlie continued eagerly, almost babbling with relief as I hesitated. "She called while you were out. 
Things aren't going so well in Florida, and if Phil doesn't get signed by the end of the week, they're going 
back to Arizona. The assistant coach of the Sidewinders said they might have a spot for another 
shortstop." 

I shook my head, trying to reassemble my now-confused thoughts. Every passing second put Charlie in 
more danger. 

"I have a key," I muttered, turning the knob. He was too close, one hand extended toward me, his face 
dazed. I couldn't lose any more time arguing with him. I was going to have to hurt him further. 

"Just let me go, Charlie." I repeated my mother's last words as she'd walked out this same door so many 
years ago. I said them as angrily as I could manage, and I threw the door open. "It didn't work out, 
okay? I really, really hate Forks !" 

My cruel words did their job — Charlie stayed frozen on the doorstep, stunned, while I ran into the 
night. I was hideously frightened of the empty yard. I ran wildly for the truck, visualizing a dark shadow 
behind me. I threw my bag in the bed and wrenched the door open. The key was waiting in the ignition. 

"I'll call you tomorrow ! " I yelled, wishing more than anything that I could explain everything to him right 
then, knowing I would never be able to. I gunned the engine and peeled out. 

Edward reached for my hand. 

"Pull over," he said as the house, and Charlie, disappeared behind us. 
"I can drive," I said through the tears pouring down my cheeks. 



His long hands unexpectedly gripped my waist, and his foot pushed mine off the gas pedal. He pulled me 
across his lap, wrenching my hands free of the wheel, and suddenly he was in the driver's seat. The truck 
didn't swerve an inch. 

"You wouldn't be able to find the house," he explained. 

Lights flared suddenly behind us. I stared out the back window, eyes wide with horror. 

"It's just Alice," he reassured me. He took my hand again. 

My mind was filled with the image of Charlie in the doorway. "The tracker?" 

"He heard the end of your performance," Edward said grimly. 

"Charlie?" I asked in dread. 

"The tracker followed us. He's running behind us now." 
My body went cold. 
"Can we outrun him?" 

"No." But he sped up as he spoke. The truck's engine whined in protest. 
My plan suddenly didn't feel so brilliant anymore. 

I was staring back at Alice's headlights when the truck shuddered and a dark shadow sprung up outside 
the window. 

My bloodcurdling scream lasted a fraction of a second before Edward's hand clamped down on my 
mouth. 

"It'sEmmett!" 

He released my mouth, and wound his arm around my waist. 
"It's okay, Bella," he promised. "You're going to be safe." 
We raced through the quiet town toward the north highway. 

"I didn't realize you were still so bored with small-town life," he said conversationally, and I knew he was 
trying to distract me. "It seemed like you were adjusting fairly well — especially recently. Maybe I was 
just flattering myself that I was making life more interesting for you." 

"I wasn't being nice," I confessed, ignoring his attempt at diversion, looking down at my knees. "That was 
the same thing my mom said when she left him. You could say I was hitting below the belt." 

"Don't worry. He'll forgive you." He smiled a little, though it didn't touch his eyes. 

I stared at him desperately, and he saw the naked panic in my eyes. 

"Bella, it's going to be all right." 

"But it won't be all right when I'm not with you," I whispered. 

"We'll be together again in a few days," he said, tightening his arm around me. "Don't forget that this was 



your idea." 



"It was the best idea — of course it was mine." 

His answering smile was bleak and disappeared immediately. 

"Why did this happen?" I asked, my voice catching. "Why me?" 

He stared blackly at the road ahead. "It's my fault — I was a fool to expose you like that." The rage in 
his voice was directed internally. 

"That's not what I meant," I insisted. "I was there, big deal. It didn't bother the other two. Why did this 
James decide to kill met There're people all over the place, why me?" 

He hesitated, thinking before he answered. 

"I got a good look at his mind tonight," he began in a low voice. "I'm not sure if there's anything I could 
have done to avoid this, once he saw you. It is partially your fault." His voice was wry. "If you didn't 
smell so appallingly luscious, he might not have bothered. But when I defended you. . . well, that made it a 
lot worse. He's not used to being thwarted, no matter how insignificant the object. He thinks of himself as 
a hunter and nothing else. His existence is consumed with tracking, and a challenge is all he asks of life. 
Suddenly we've presented him with a beautiful challenge — a large clan of strong fighters all bent on 
protecting the one vulnerable element. You wouldn't believe how euphoric he is now. It's his favorite 
game, and we've just made it his most exciting game ever." His tone was full of disgust. 

He paused a moment. 



41:16 And Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, It is not in me: God shall
give Pharaoh an answer of peace.


41:25 And Joseph said unto Pharaoh, The dream of Pharaoh is one: God
hath shewed Pharaoh what he is about to do.

41:26 The seven good kine are seven years; and the seven good ears are
seven years: the dream is one.

"I'm intrigued by the life you've created here. But I won't get in the middle of this. I bear none of you any 
enmity, but I won't go up against James. I think I will head north — to that clan in Denali." He hesitated. 
"Don't underestimate James. He's got a brilliant mind and unparalleled senses. He's every bit as 
comfortable in the human world as you seem to be, and he won't come at you head on. . . I'm sorry for 
what's been unleashed here. Truly sorry." He bowed his head, but I saw him flicker another puzzled look 
at me. 



"Go in peace," was Carlisle's formal answer. 

Laurent took another long look around himself, and then he hurried out the door. 
The silence lasted less than a second. 
"How close?" Carlisle looked to Edward. 

Esme was already moving; her hand touched an inconspicuous keypad on the wall, and with a groan, 
huge metal shutters began sealing up the glass wall. I gaped. 

"About three miles out past the river; he's circling around to meet up with the female." 
"What's the plan?" 

"We'll lead him off, and then Jasper and Alice will run her south." 
"And then?" 

Edward's tone was deadly. "As soon as Bella is clear, we hunt him." 
"I guess there's no other choice," Carlisle agreed, his face grim. 
Edward turned to Rosalie. 


41:17 And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, In my dream, behold, I stood upon
the bank of the river: 41:18 And, behold, there came up out of the
river seven kine, fatfleshed and well favoured; and they fed in a
meadow: 41:19 And, behold, seven other kine came up after them, poor
and very ill favoured and leanfleshed, such as I never saw in all the
land of Egypt for badness: 41:20 And the lean and the ill favoured
kine did eat up the first seven fat kine: 41:21 And when they had
eaten them up, it could not be known that they had eaten them; but
they were still ill favoured, as at the beginning. So I awoke.

41:22 And I saw in my dream, and, behold, seven ears came up in one
stalk, full and good: 41:23 And, behold, seven ears, withered, thin,
and blasted with the east wind, sprung up after them: 41:24 And the
thin ears devoured the seven good ears: and I told this unto the
magicians; but there was none that could declare it to me.

"Get her upstairs and trade clothes," Edward commanded. She stared back at him with livid disbelief. 

"Why should I?" she hissed. "What is she to me? Except a menace — a danger you've chosen to inflict 
on all of us." 

I flinched back from the venom in her voice. 

"Rose. . . " Emmett murmured, putting one hand on her shoulder. She shook it off. 

But I was watching Edward carefully, knowing his temper, worried about his reaction. 

He surprised me. He looked away from Rosalie as if she hadn't spoken, as if she didn't exist. 

"Esme?" he asked calmly. 

"Of course," Esme murmured. 

Esme was at my side in half a heartbeat, swinging me up easily into her arms, and dashing up the stairs 
before I could gasp in shock. 

"What are we doing?" I asked breathlessly as she set me down in a dark room somewhere off the 
second-story hall. 

"Trying to confuse the smell. It won't work for long, but it might help get you out." I could hear her 
clothes falling to the floor. 

"I don't think I'll fit. . . " I hesitated, but her hands were abruptly pulling my shirt over my head. I quickly 
stripped my jeans off myself. She handed me something, it felt like a shirt. I struggled to get my arms 
through the right holes. As soon as I was done she handed me her slacks. I yanked them on, but I 
couldn't get my feet out; they were too long. She deftly rolled the hems a few times so I could stand. 
Somehow she was already in my clothes. She pulled me back to the stairs, where Alice stood, a small 



leather bag in one hand. They each grabbed one of my elbows and half -carried me as they flew down the 
stairs. 

It appeared that everything had been settled downstairs in our absence. Edward and Emmett were ready 
to leave, Emmett carrying a heavy-looking backpack over his shoulder. Carlisle was handing something 
small to Esme. He turned and handed Alice the same thing — it was a tiny silver cell phone. 

'Esme and Rosalie will be taking your truck, Bella," he told me as he passed. I nodded, glancing warily at 
Rosalie. She was glowering at Carlisle with a resentful expression. 

"Alice, Jasper — take the Mercedes. You'll need the dark tint in the south." 

They nodded as well. 

"We're taking the Jeep." 

I was surprised to see that Carlisle intended to go with Edward. I realized suddenly, with a stab of fear, 
that they made up the hunting party. 

"Alice," Carlisle asked, "will they take the bait?" 

Everyone watched Alice as she closed her eyes and became incredibly still. 

Finally her eyes opened. "He'll track you. The woman will follow the truck. We should be able to leave 
after that." Her voice was certain. 

"Let's go." Carlisle began to walk toward the kitchen. 

But Edward was at my side at once. He caught me up in his iron grip, crushing me to him. He seemed 
unaware of his watching family as he pulled my face to his, lifting my feet off the floor. For the shortest 
second, his hps were icy and hard against mine. Then it was over. He set me down, still holding my face, 
his glorious eyes burning into mine. 

His eyes went blank, curiously dead, as he turned away. 

And they were gone. 

We stood there, the others looking away from me as the tears streaked noiselessly down my face. 

The silent moment dragged on, and then Esme's phone vibrated in her hand. It flashed to her ear. 

"Now," she said. Rosalie stalked out the front door without another glance in my direction, but Esme 
touched my cheek as she passed. 

"Be safe." Her whisper lingered behind them as they slipped out the door. I heard my truck start 
thunderously, and then fade away. 

Jasper and Alice waited. Alice's phone seemed to be at her ear before it buzzed. 

"Edward says the woman is on Esme's trail. I'll get the car." She vanished into the shadows the way 
Edward had gone. 


I was still awake when we came through a shallow mountain pass and the sun, behind us now, reflected 
off the tiled rooftops of the Valley of the Sun. I didn't have enough emotion left to be surprised that we'd 
made a three-day journey in one. I stared blankly at the wide, flat expanse laid out in front of me. 
Phoenix — the palm trees, the scrubby creosote, the haphazard lines of the intersecting freeways, the 
green swaths of golf courses and turquoise splotches of swimming pools, all submerged in a thin smog 
and embraced by the short, rocky ridges that weren't really big enough to be called mountains. 



The shadows of the palm trees slanted across the freeway — defined, sharper than I remembered, paler 
than they should be. Nothing could hide in these shadows. The bright, open freeway seemed benign 
enough. But I felt no relief, no sense of homecoming. 

"Which way to the airport, Bella?" Jasper had asked, and I flinched, though his voice was quite soft and 
un-alarming. It was the first sound, besides the purr of the car, to break the long night's silence. 

"Stay on the I-ten," I'd answered automatically. "We'll pass right by it." 

My brain had worked slowly through the fog of sleep deprivation. 

"Are we flying somewhere?" I'd asked Alice. 

"No, but it's better to be close, just in case." 

I remembered beginning the loop around Sky Harbor International. . . but not ending it. I suppose that 
must have been when I'd fallen asleep. 

Though, now that I'd chased the memories down, I did have a vague impression of leaving the car — the 
sun was just falling behind the horizon — my arm draped over Alice's shoulder and her arm firm around 
my waist, dragging me along as I stumbled through the warm, dry shadows. 

I had no memory of this room. 

I looked at the digital clock on the nightstand. The red numbers claimed it was three o'clock, but they 
gave no indication if it was night or day. No edge of light escaped the thick curtains, but the room was 
bright with the light from the lamps. 

I rose stiffly and staggered to the window, pulling back the drapes. 

It was dark outside. Three in the morning, then. My room looked out on a deserted section of the 
freeway and the new long-term parking garage for the airport. It was slightly comforting to be able to 
pinpoint time and place. 

I looked down at myself. I was still wearing Esme's clothes, and they didn't fit very well at all. I looked 
around the room, glad when I discovered my duffel bag on top of the low dresser. 

I was on my way to find new clothes when a light tap on the door made me jump. 

"Can I come in?" Alice asked. 

I took a deep breath. "Sure." 

She walked in, and looked me over cautiously. "You look like you could sleep longer," she said. 
I just shook my head. 

She drifted silently to the curtains and closed them securely before turning back to me. 

"We'll need to stay inside," she told me. 

"Okay." My voice was hoarse; it cracked. 

"Thirsty?" she asked. 

I shrugged. "I'm okay. How about you?" 



"Nothing unmanageable." She smiled. "I ordered some food for you, it's in the front room. Edward 
reminded me that you have to eat a lot more frequently than we do." 

I was instantiy more alert. "He called?" 

"No," she said, and watched as my face fell. "It was before we left." 

She took my hand carefully and led me through the door into the living room of the hotel suite. I could 
hear a low buzz of voices coming from the TV. Jasper sat motionlessly at the desk in the comer, his eyes 
watching the news with no glimmer of interest. 

I sat on the floor next to the coffee table, where a tray of food waited, and began picking at it without 
noticing what I was eating. 

Alice perched on the arm of the sofa and stared blankly at the TV like Jasper. 

I ate slowly, watching her, turning now and then to glance quickly at Jasper. It began to dawn on me that 
they were too still. They never looked away from the screen, though commercials were playing now. I 
pushed the tray away, my stomach abruptly uneasy. Alice looked down at me. 

"What's wrong, Alice?" I asked. 

"Nothing's wrong." Her eyes were wide, honest. . . and I didn't trust them. 
"What do we do now?" 
"We wait for Carlisle to call." 

"And should he have called by now?" I could see that I was near the mark. Alice's eyes flitted from mine 
to the phone on top of her leather bag and back. 




are under too much strain as it is; don't add to it with wholly unnecessary worries. Listen to me!" he 
ordered, for I had looked away. "Our family is strong. Our only fear is losing you." 

"But why should you — " 

Alice interrupted this time, touching my cheek with her cold fingers. "It's been almost a century that 
Edward's been alone. Now he's found you. You can't see the changes that we see, we who have been 
with him for so long. Do you think any of us want to look into his eyes for the next hundred years if he 
loses you?" 

My guilt slowly subsided as I looked into her dark eyes. But, even as the calm spread over me, I knew I 
couldn't trust my feelings with Jasper there. 

It was a very long day. 

We stayed in the room. Alice called down to the front desk and asked them to ignore our maid service 
for now. The windows stayed shut, the TV on, though no one watched it. At regular intervals, food was 
delivered for me. The silver phone resting on Alice's bag seemed to grow bigger as the hours passed. 

My babysitters handled the suspense better than I did. As I fidgeted and paced, they simply grew more 
still, two statues whose eyes followed me imperceptibly as I moved. I occupied myself with memorizing 
the room; the striped pattern of the couches, tan, peach, cream, dull gold, and tan again. Sometimes I 
stared at the abstract prints, randomly finding pictures in the shapes, like I'd found pictures in the clouds 
as a child. I traced a blue hand, a woman combing her hair, a cat stretching. But when the pale red circle 
became a staring eye, I looked away. 

As the afternoon wore on, I went back to bed, simply for something to do. I hoped that by myself in the 
dark, I could give in to the terrible fears that hovered on the edge of my consciousness, unable to break 
through under Jasper's careful supervision. 

But Alice followed me casually, as if by some coincidence she had grown tired of the front room at the 
same time. I was beginning to wonder exactiy what sort of instructions Edward had given her. I lay 
across the bed, and she sat, legs folded, next to me. I ignored her at first, suddenly tired enough to sleep. 
But after a few minutes, the panic that had held off in Jasper's presence began to make itself known. I 


"Edward said that it was very hard to do. . . I don't quite understand," I said. 

"We're also like sharks in a way. Once we taste the blood, or even smell it for that matter, it becomes 
very hard to keep from feeding. Sometimes impossible. So you see, to actually bite someone, to taste the 
blood, it would begin the frenzy. It's difficult on both sides — the blood-lust on the one hand, the awful 
pain on the other." 

"Why do you think you don't remember?" 

"I don't know. For everyone else, the pain of transformation is the sharpest memory they have of their 
human life. I remember nothing of being human." Her voice was wistful. 

We lay silentiy, wrapped in our individual meditations. 

The seconds ticked by, and I had almost forgotten her presence, I was so enveloped in my thoughts. 

Then, without any warning, Alice leaped from the bed, landing lightiy on her feet. My head jerked up as I 
stared at her, startled. 

"Something's changed." Her voice was urgent, and she wasn't talking to me anymore. 

She reached the door at the same time Jasper did. He had obviously heard our conversation and her 
sudden exclamation. He put his hands on her shoulders and guided her back to the bed, sitting her on the 
edge. 

"What do you see?" he asked intently, staring into her eyes. Her eyes were focused on something very far 
away. I sat close to her, leaning in to catch her low, quick voice. 

"I see a room. It's long, and there are mirrors everywhere. The floor is wooden. He's in the room, and 




"It looks like a place I used to go for dance lessons — when I was eight or nine. It was shaped just the 



same." I touched the page where the square section jutted out, narrowing the back part of the room. 
"That's where the bathrooms were — the doors were through the other dance floor. But the stereo was 
here" — I pointed to the left corner — "it was older, and there wasn't a TV. There was a window in the 
waiting room — you would see the room from this perspective if you looked through it." 

Alice and Jasper were staring at me. 

"Are you sure it's the same room?" Jasper asked, still calm. 

"No, not at all — I suppose most dance studios would look the same — the mirrors, the bar." I traced 
my finger along the ballet bar set against the mirrors. "It's just the shape that looked familiar." I touched 
the door, set in exactly the same place as the one I remembered. 

"Would you have any reason to go there now?" Alice asked, breaking my reverie. 



"I'm sorry to hear that. I was hoping you would be a little more creative than that. Do you think you could 
get away from them if your mother's life depended on it? Answer yes or no." 

Somehow, there had to be a way. I remembered that we were going to the airport. Sky Harbor 
International Airport: crowded, confusingly laid out. . . 

"Yes." 

"That's better. I'm sure it won't be easy, but if I get the slightest hint that you have any company, well, that 
would be very bad for your mother," the friendly voice promised. "You must know enough about us by 
now to realize how quickly I would know if you tried to bring anyone along with you. And how little time 
I would need to deal with your mother if that was the case. Do you understand? Answer yes or no." 

"Yes." My voice broke. 

"Very good, Bella. Now this is what you have to do. I want you to go to your mother's house. Next to 
the phone there will be a number. Call it, and I'll tell you where to go from there." I already knew where I 
would go, and where this would end. But I would follow his instructions exactiy. "Can you do that? 
Answer yes or no." 

"Yes." 

"Before noon, please, Bella. I haven't got all day," he said politely. 
"Where's Phil?" I asked tersely. 

"Ah, be careful now, Bella. Wait until I ask you to speak, please." 
I waited. 

"It's important, now, that you don't make your friends suspicious when you go back to them. Tell them 
that your mother called, and that you talked her out of coming home for the time being. Now repeat after 
me, 'Thank you, Mom.' Say it now." 

"Thank you, Mom." The tears were coming. I tried to fight them back. 



"Say, 1 love you, Mom, I'll see you soon.' Say it now." 

"I love you, Mom." My voice was thick. "I'll see you soon," I promised. 

"Goodbye, Bella. I look forward to seeing you again." He hung up. 

I held the phone to my ear. My joints were frozen with terror — I couldn't unbend my fingers to drop it. 

I knew I had to think, but my head was filled with the sound of my mother's panic. Seconds ticked by 
while I fought for control. 

Slowly, slowly, my thoughts started to break past that brick wall of pain. To plan. For I had no choices 
now but one: to go to the mirrored room and die. I had no guarantees, nothing to give to keep my mother 
alive. I could only hope that James would be satisfied with winning the game, that beating Edward would 
be enough. Despair gripped me; there was no way to bargain, nothing I could offer or withhold that could 
influence him. But I still had no choice. I had to try. 

I pushed the terror back as well as I could. My decision was made. It did no good to waste time 
agonizing over the outcome. I had to think clearly, because Alice and Jasper were waiting for me, and 
evading them was absolutely essential, and absolutely impossible. 

I was suddenly grateful that Jasper was gone. If he had been here to feel my anguish in the last five 
minutes, how could I have kept them from being suspicious? I choked back the dread, the anxiety, tried 
to stifle it. I couldn't afford it now. I didn't know when he would return. 

I concentrated on my escape. I had to hope that my familiarity with the airport would turn the odds in my 
favor. Somehow, I had to keep Alice away. . . 

I knew Alice was in the other room waiting for me, curious. But I had to deal with one more thing in 
private, before Jasper was back. 

I had to accept that I wouldn't see Edward again, not even one last glimpse of his face to carry with me 
to the mirror room. I was going to hurt him, and I couldn't say goodbye. I let the waves of torture wash 
over me, have their way for a time. Then I pushed them back, too, and went to face Alice. 

The only expression I could manage was a dull, dead look. I saw her alarm and I didn't wait for her to 
ask. I had just one script and I'd never manage improvisation now. 

"My mom was worried, she wanted to come home. But it's okay, I convinced her to stay away." My 
voice was lifeless. 

"We'll make sure she's fine, Bella, don't worry." 
I turned away; I couldn't let her see my face. 

My eye fell on a blank page of the hotel stationery on the desk. I went to it slowly, a plan forming. There 
was an envelope there, too. That was good. 

"Alice," I asked slowly, without turning, keeping my voice level. "If I write a letter for my mother, would 
you give it to her? Leave it at the house, I mean." 

"Sure, Bella." Her voice was careful. She could see me coming apart at the seams. I had to keep my 
emotions under better control. 

I went into the bedroom again, and knelt next to the little bedside table to write. 



"Edward," I wrote. My hand was shaking, the letters were hardly legible. 



/ love you. I am so sorry. He has my mom, and I have to try. I know it may not work. I am so very, 
very sorry. 

Don 't be angry with Alice and Jasper. If I get away from them it will be a miracle. Tell them thank 
you for me. Alice especially, please. 

And please, please, don't come after him. That's what he wants. I think. I can't bear it if anyone 
has to be hurt because of me, especially you. Please, this is the only thing I can ask you now. For 
me. 

I love you. Forgive me. 
Bella 



I folded the letter carefully, and sealed it in the envelope. Eventually he would find it. I only hoped he 
would understand, and listen to me just this once. 

And then I carefully sealed away my heart. 
22. HIDE-AND-SEEK 

It had taken much less time than I'd thought — all the terror, the despair, the shattering of my heart. The 
minutes were ticking by more slowly than usual. Jasper still hadn't come back when I returned to Alice. I 
was afraid to be in the same room with her, afraid that she would guess. . . and afraid to hide from her for 
the same reason. 

I would have thought I was far beyond the ability to be surprised, my thoughts tortured and unstable, but 
I was surprised when I saw Alice bent over the desk, gripping the edge with two hands. 

"Alice?" 

She didn't react when I called her name, but her head was slowly rocking side to side, and I saw her 
face. Her eyes were blank, dazed. . . My thoughts flew to my mother. Was I already too late? 

I hurried to her side, reaching out automatically to touch her hand. 

"Alice!" Jasper's voice whipped, and then he was right behind her, his hands curling over hers, loosening 
them from their grip on the table. Across the room, the door swung shut with a low click. 

"What is it?" he demanded. 

She turned her face away from me, into his chest. "Bella," she said. 
"I'm right here," I replied. 

Her head twisted around, her eyes locking on mine, their expression still strangely blank. I realized at 



once that she hadn't been speaking to me, she'd been answering Jasper's question. 

"What did you see?" I said — and there was no question in my flat, uncaring voice. 

Jasper looked at me sharply. I kept my expression vacant and waited. His eyes were confused as they 
flickered swiftly between Alice's face and mine, feeling the chaos. . . for I could guess what Alice had 
seen now. 

I felt a tranquil atmosphere settle around me. I welcomed it, using it to keep my emotions disciplined, 
under control. 

Alice, too, recovered herself. 

"Nothing, really," she answered finally, her voice remarkably calm and convincing. "Just the same room 
as before." 

She finally looked at me, her expression smooth and withdrawn. "Did you want breakfast?" 

"No, I'll eat at the airport." I was very calm, too. I went to the bathroom to shower. Almost as if I were 
borrowing Jasper's strange extra sense, I could feel Alice's wild — though well-concealed — 
desperation to have me out of the room, to be alone with Jasper. So she could tell him that they were 
doing something wrong, that they were going to fail. . . 

I got ready methodically, concentrating on each little task. I left my hair down, swirling around me, 
covering my face. The peaceful mood Jasper created worked its way through me and helped me think 
clearly. Helped me plan. I dug through my bag until I found my sock full of money. I emptied it into my 
pocket. 

I was anxious to get to the airport, and glad when we left by seven. I sat alone this time in the back of the 
dark car. Alice leaned against the door, her face toward Jasper but, behind her sunglasses, shooting 
glances in my direction every few seconds. 

"Alice?" I asked indifferently. 

She was wary. "Yes?" 

"How does it work? The things that you see?" I stared out the side window, and my voice sounded 
bored. "Edward said it wasn't definite. . . that things change?" It was harder than I would have thought to 
say his name. That must have been what alerted Jasper, why a fresh wave of serenity filled the car. 

"Yes, things change. . . " she murmured — hopefully, I thought. "Some things are more certain than 
others. . . like the weather. People are harder. I only see the course they're on while they're on it. Once 
they change their minds — make a new decision, no matter how small — the whole future shifts." 

I nodded thoughtfully. "So you couldn't see James in Phoenix until he decided to come here." 

"Yes," she agreed, wary again. 

And she hadn't seen me in the mirror room with James until I'd made the decision to meet him there. I 
tried not to think about what else she might have seen. I didn't want my panic to make Jasper more 
suspicious. They would be watching me twice as carefully now, anyway, after Alice's vision. This was 
going to be impossible. 

We got to the airport. Luck was with me, or maybe it was just good odds. Edward's plane was landing 



in terminal four, the largest terminal, where most flights landed — so it wasn't surprising that his was. But 
it was the terminal I needed: the biggest, the most confusing. And there was a door on level three that 
might be the only chance. 

We parked on the fourth floor of the huge garage. I led the way, for once more knowledgeable about my 
surroundings than they were. We took the elevator down to level three, where the passengers unloaded. 
Alice and Jasper spent a long time looking at the departing flights board. I could hear them discussing the 
pros and cons of New York, Atlanta, Chicago. Places I'd never seen. And would never see. 

I waited for my opportunity, impatient, unable to stop my toe from tapping. We sat in the long rows of 
chairs by the metal detectors, Jasper and Alice pretending to people- watch but really watching me. Every 
inch I shifted in my seat was followed by a quick glance out of the comer of their eyes. It was hopeless. 
Should I run? Would they dare to stop me physically in this public place? Or would they simply follow? 

I pulled the unmarked envelope out of my pocket and set it on top of Alice's black leather bag. She 
looked at me. 

"My letter," I said. She nodded, tucking it under the top flap. He would find it soon enough. 

The minutes passed and Edward's arrival grew closer. It was amazing how every cell in my body seemed 
to know he was coming, to long for his corning. That made it very hard. I found myself trying to think of 
excuses to stay, to see him first and then make my escape. But I knew that was impossible if I was going 
to have any chance to get away. 

Several times Alice offered to go get breakfast with me. Later, I told her, not yet. 

I stared at the arrival board, watching as flight after flight arrived on time. The flight from Seattle crept 
closer to the top of the board. 

And then, when I had only thirty minutes to make my escape, the numbers changed. His plane was ten 
minutes early. I had no more time. 

"I think I'll eat now," I said quickly. 

Alice stood. "I'll come with you." 


36:39 And Baalhanan the son of Achbor died, and Hadar reigned in his
stead: and the name of his city was Pau; and his wife’s name was
Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.

36:40 And these are the names of the dukes that came of Esau,
according to their families, after their places, by their names; duke
Timnah, duke Alvah, duke Jetheth, 36:41 Duke Aholibamah, duke Elah,
duke Pinon, 36:42 Duke Kenaz, duke Teman, duke Mibzar, 36:43 Duke
Magdiel, duke Iram: these be the dukes of Edom, according to their
habitations in the land of their possession: he is Esau the father of
the Edomites.

"Do you mind if Jasper comes instead?" I asked. "I'm feeling a little. . . " I didn't finish the sentence. My 
eyes were wild enough to convey what I didn't say. 

Jasper stood up. Alice's eyes were confused, but — I saw to my relief — not suspicious. She must be 
attributing the change in her vision to some maneuver of the tracker's rather than a betrayal by me. 

Jasper walked silentiy beside me, his hand on the small of my back, as if he were guiding me. I pretended 
a lack of interest in the first few airport cafes, my head scanning for what I really wanted. And there it 
was, around the corner, out of Alice's sharp sight: the level-three ladies' room. 

"Do you mind?" I asked Jasper as we passed. "I'll just be a moment." 

'Til be right here," he said. 

As soon as the door shut behind me, I was running. I remembered the time I had gotten lost from this 
bathroom, because it had two exits. 

Outside the far door it was only a short sprint to the elevators, and if Jasper stayed where he said he 



would, I'd never be in his line of sight. I didn't look behind me as I ran. This was my only chance, and 
even if he saw me, I had to keep going. People stared, but I ignored them. Around the corner the 
elevators were waiting, and I dashed forward, throwing my hand between the closing doors of a full 
elevator headed down. I squeezed in beside the irritated passengers, and checked to make sure that the 
button for level one had been pushed. It was already lit, and the doors closed. 

As soon as the door opened I was off again, to the sound of annoyed murmurs behind me. I slowed 
myself as I passed the security guards by the luggage carousels, only to break into a run again as the exit 
doors came into view. I had no way of knowing if Jasper was looking for me yet. 

36:38 And Saul died, and Baalhanan the son of Achbor reigned in his
stead.


37:1 And Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger, in
the land of Canaan.

37:2 These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years
old, was feeding the flock with his brethren; and the lad was with the
sons of Bilhah, and with the sons of Zilpah, his father’s wives: and
Joseph brought unto his father their evil report.

37:3 Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he
was the son of his old age: and he made him a coat of many colours.

37:4 And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than
all his brethren, they hated him, and could not speak peaceably unto
him.

37:5 And Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it his brethren: and they
hated him yet the more.

37:6 And he said unto them, Hear, I pray you, this dream which I have
dreamed: 37:7 For, behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and,
lo, my sheaf arose, and also stood upright; and, behold, your sheaves
stood round about, and made obeisance to my sheaf.



I would have only seconds if he was following my scent. I jumped out the automatic doors, nearly 
smacking into the glass when they opened too slowly. 

Along the crowded curb there wasn't a cab in sight. 

I had no time. Alice and Jasper were either about to realize I was gone, or they already had. They would 
find me in a heartbeat. 

A shuttle to the Hyatt was just closing its doors a few feet behind me. 
"Wait!" I called, running, waving at the driver. 

"This is the shuttle to the Hyatt," the driver said in confusion as he opened the doors. 
"Yes," I huffed, "that's where I'm going." I hurried up the steps. 

He looked askance at my luggage-less state, but then shrugged, not caring enough to ask. 

Most of the seats were empty. I sat as far from the other travelers as possible, and watched out the 
window as first the sidewalk, and then the airport, drifted away. I couldn't help imagining Edward, where 
he would stand at the edge of the road when he found the end of my trail. I couldn't cry yet, I told myself. 
I still had a long way to go. 

My luck held. In front of the Hyatt, a tired-looking couple was getting their last suitcase out of the trunk 
of a cab. I jumped out of the shuttle and ran to the cab, sliding into the seat behind the driver. The tired 
couple and the shuttle driver stared at me. 

37:8 And his brethren said to him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? or
shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the
more for his dreams, and for his words.

37:9 And he dreamed yet another dream, and told it his brethren, and
said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream more; and, behold, the sun and
the moon and the eleven stars made obeisance to me.


I told the surprised cabbie my mother's address. "I need to get there as soon as possible." 
"That's in Scottsdale," he complained. 
I threw four twenties over the seat. 
"Will that be enough?" 
"Sure, kid, no problem." 

I sat back against the seat, folding my arms across my lap. The familiar city began to rush around me, but 
I didn't look out the windows. I exerted myself to maintain control. I was determined not to lose myself at 
this point, now that my plan was successfully completed. There was no point in indulging in more terror, 
more anxiety. My path was set. I just had to follow it now. 

So, instead of panicking, I closed my eyes and spent the twenty minutes' drive with Edward. 

I imagined that I had stayed at the airport to meet Edward. I visualized how I would stand on my toes, 



the sooner to see his face. How quickly, how gracefully he would move through the crowds of people 
separating us. And then I would run to close those last few feet between us — reckless as always — and 
I would be in his marble arms, finally safe. 

I wondered where we would have gone. North somewhere, so he could be outside in the day. Or maybe 
somewhere very remote, so we could lay in the sun together again. I imagined him by the shore, his skin 
sparkling like the sea. It wouldn't matter how long we had to hide. To be trapped in a hotel room with 
him would be a kind of heaven. So many questions I still had for him. I could talk to him forever, never 
sleeping, never leaving his side. 

I could see his face so clearly now. . . almost hear his voice. And, despite all the horror and hopelessness, 
I was fleetingly happy. So involved was I in my escapist daydreams, I lost all track of the seconds racing 

by- 

"Hey, what was the number?" 

The cabbie's question punctured my fantasy, letting all the colors run out of my lovely delusions. Fear, 
bleak and hard, was waiting to fill the empty space they left behind. 

"Fifty-eight twenty-one." My voice sounded strangled. The cabbie looked at me, nervous that I was 
having an episode or something. 

"Here we are, then." He was anxious to get me out of his car, probably hoping I wouldn't ask for my 
change. 



He rolled his eyes and set his hps. "Bella, we're not having this discussion anymore. I refuse to damn you 
to an eternity of night and that's the end of it." 

"If you think that's the end, then you don't know me very well," I warned him. "You're not the only 
vampire I know." 

His eyes went black again. "Alice wouldn't dare." 



And for a moment he looked so frightening that I couldn't help but believe it — I couldn't imagine 
someone brave enough to cross him. 

"Alice already saw it, didn't she?" I guessed. "That's why the things she says upset you. She knows I'm 
going to be like you. . . someday." 

"She's wrong. She also saw you dead, but that didn't happen, either." 
"You'll never catch me betting against Alice." 

We stared at each other for a very long time. It was quiet except for the whirring of the machines, the 
beeping, the dripping, the ticking of the big clock on the wall. Finally, his expression softened. 

"So where does that leave us?" I wondered. 

He chuckled humorlessly. "I believe it's called an impasse" 

I sighed. "Ouch," I muttered. 

"How are you feeling?" he asked, eyeing the button for the nurse. 
'Tm fine," I lied. 

"I don't believe you," he said gently. 

"I'm not going back to sleep." 

"You need rest. All this arguing isn't good for you." 

"So give in," I hinted. 

"Nice try." He reached for the button. 

"No!" 

He ignored me. 

"Yes?" the speaker on the wall squawked. 

"I think we're ready for more pain medication," he said calmly, ignoring my furious expression. 
"I'll send in the nurse." The voice sounded very bored. 
"I won't take it," I promised. 

He looked toward the sack of fluids hanging beside my bed. "I don't think they're going to ask you to 
swallow anything." 

My heart rate started to climb. He read the fear in my eyes, and sighed in frustration. 

"Bella, you're in pain. You need to relax so you can heal. Why are you being so difficult? They're not 
going to put any more needles in you now." 



"You're ready now, then?" he asked. 

"Urn." I gulped. "Yes?" 




